If everyone will please take their
seats.
Now, this is my u this is my 60th annual
meeting and
uh and it's the biggest and I think
it'll be the best yet. And uh I would uh
before I start, I'd like to give you a
few figures from from uh yesterday
because we set all kinds of records.
Uh yesterday we had
uh
um
19,700 people that joined us in the
afternoon between noon and 5:00. And
that was up from 16,200 which was a
previous record the year
before.
Uh and
uh in every aspect we set records. Uh
sees Candy did
uh uh
$317,000 against 283,000 the year
before. And most of these were limited
by capacity. I mean, there were there
were lines there throughout the total
day. Brooks did
310,000. Uh it was an all-time record
sales day for them. And I think they
have close to 3,000 runners lined up for
Sunday. Uh which is a lot of people to
get up that I I think we we've had 2200
or 2400 before, but but 3,000. And uh
that doesn't count me and it won't count
me. And uh I could go up and down the
line. Jazz Jazz wares
uh
um around 250,000 double the previous
years. They they just sell as fast as
they can sell. Most of most every every
place had had uh had uh people lined up
at the
uh at the cash register sometimes for a
lot longer wait than wish we had. But uh
but we'll learn the game
eventually. And it goes on and on. Every
company set records and uh and
uh there's no way of knowing how many
people we have here today. We have
people listening in around the world. Uh
but
uh uh I think we're setting we'll
probably set records in a great variety
of ways. And uh I would uh we're going
to
have in a minute we'll get to the
question and answer, but I' I'd like to
first introduce our directors and and uh
uh I'm I'm Warren Buffett and I was born
and bred right here in Omaha.
Uh we have Greg Ael. He was born and
bread in
Canada and we have a Jeep Jane who was
born and bread in India. So
we we have a very diverse
group and uh
uh in the audience and I will introduce
them alphabetically and if they'll stand
as I introduce them and uh I know it'll
be an effort but withhold your applause
till the end so that uh so that we can
get through the list but we'll
alphabetically uh with Howard Buffett.
How I would just stand and
uh withhold the applause. It'll go to
his head.
Uh Susan
Buffett. We
have Steve
Burke, Ken
Chanel, Chris
Davis, Sue Decker, who's our lead
director, Charlotte
Gman, Tom Murphy
Jr., Ron Olsen, and I'll have a few and
when we finish I'll have a few more
things to add about him. Wally
Whites and Mel
Whitmer. And with that, you've got our
all-star
cast. And Ron, if you don't mind
standing, I would like to point out that
that Ron, they finally got through an
age director thing at at Birkshire. Uh I
think we had five that were over 90 here
not too long ago, but uh but we put in
the highest
uh or Sue tells me anyway that it's the
the highest age uh uh limit that any any
of the companies she checked out came up
with. But uh uh Ron has been on the
board for 28
years and uh been associated with
Charlie Munger at Munger Tolls for many
years beyond that and has been around at
a variety of times of crisis and joy and
disappointments and surprises and
everything else at Bergkshire and has
been of invaluable help to us. So, I
think I think I'd like to give a special
hand to Ron
[Applause]
Olsson and uh I think I'll do something
else that isn't done usually at annual
meetings, but I I haven't had a chance.
Uh I listened to them on Thursday
afternoon. It's the only It's the only
uh It's the only
investment quarterly call that I listen
to, but uh I listen to Tim Cook and I
understand and it'll be tough for me to
see him from up here, but Tim Cook,
there he is.
I'm somewhat embarrassed to say that Tim
Cook has made the Bergkshire a lot more
money than I've ever made Berkshire.
So I uh credit credit should be given to
him for uh I knew Steve Jobs briefly and
Steve of course did things that nobody
else could have done in
developing Apple but but
uh Steve picked out Tim to succeed him
and he really made the right decision.
Steve died young as you know and
uh nobody but Steve could have created
Apple but nobody could but but Tim could
have developed it like it has. So so on
behalf of all of Bergkshire, thank you
Tim. There's a couple other people I'd
like to thank.
uh I don't do any work in terms of the
show or anything else around Bergkshire
but uh what you see today
uh is the product of a lot of people at
Berkshire they forget you know that they
don't think of themselves as the one
who's supposed to screw a light in and
leave for somebody else specialist to
come along and do other things. uh the
people of Bergkshire put on this this
show every year and uh uh you know our
our chief financial officer and just
everybody pitches in. It's a remarkable
organization that way, but it's led this
year uh in the last few years by Melissa
Shapiro and she's made this whole thing
work. Melissa
And then we got an idea a while back.
Well, many years ago,
uh well, I'll take it all the way back.
uh maybe
uh 65 years
ago I met
uh Carrie
Sa's grandfather and
uh
wife they had nine children and Susie
and I joined a a
um playhouse group and I don't look like
the kind of guy that would join a
playhouse group but it was turned out to
be a great a great move in many ways.
First of all, I enjoyed the plays. Uh
but beyond that uh
uh I met not only
uh not not
only Carrie's grandfather who ran an
insurance company in Omaha, Bill Kaiser
uh but I uh also met uh the Blumpin boys
uh parents
Louie and and Francis. So in in one sort
of accident
um when I was in my 20s uh came up with
all kinds of good things and in
connection with
Carrie her father ran a company called
uh Central States and later on we bought
that
company and then her
father ran the
company her
sister went to work for
Bergkshire some years ago and then
uh she decided to have a family and
subsequently had four kids. So she left
but Carrie moved right in and Carrie uh
uh had amazing talents behind just like
a good many people do. They they they
have talents you don't you don't realize
till uh you give them some
responsibility. And
so 10 or 11 years ago at uh I asked
Carrie to do a 50th anniversary book
uh about
Bergkshire and just use her imagination
and and she never she didn't need to
check with me or do anything. She just
she'd never edited a book. She'd never
published a book. She'd never dealt with
the printers before. But she just went
out and promptly put together this 50th
anniversary book and then this year
uh well then Carrie of course got
married and had three kids so she had to
leave us but but uh and we have a we go
to a baseball game once a year and we
invite some of our distinguished alumni
like Carrie to join us and uh Carrie uh
uh even though she was raising three
children
uh and you may have met one or two of
them uh in the last day or so. She
volunteered to bring bring together a
60th anniversary book and uh which I I
asked for and uh again she took the
whole thing. She just did it. uh she
kept doing the things with her kids and
every now and then she'd I'd ask her how
it was going and she'd tell me how it
was going and so she put together this
60th anniversary book and um
um got it done by you know maybe a week
before the meeting because I I gave her
the assignment very late and uh
yesterday
we
sold I think it was 4,000 plus 4 to
4,500 maybe. We we
4,400. Uh we
printed 8,000. We intended to print
5,000, but so we sold
4,400 books
yesterday and uh we'll have 30 I guess
roughly
3,600 left out there today. And it's
kind of a whimsical and but but accurate
and uh uh
uh she came out with just the book I
hope she would come out with. And uh and
then as we went through
uh this publishing experience
uh Carrie wouldn't take a dime. Um, but
I did get her to name her
uh favorite
charity and this statement center which
takes care of homeless people
uh and does a great many other things.
Uh it's located
about five or six miles from where we
are here south. Has been doing a
wonderful job. her grandfather helped
form it. Uh her husband's now joined the
board and
uh we are selling 20 copies of uh this
is a commercial place, isn't it? We are
selling a uh 20 copies that uh we sold
10 prior to the meeting. That's all we
let them sell and we raised a few
hundred,000 doing that.
Uh, I think we sold one for
$100,000 and
um, but we limited that to 10. And the
only difference in these and the $25
version is that uh, Carrie and I sound
signed them. Uh but we saved six for
yesterday and uh
the six brought
$148,000 which is a pretty good average
per book of about 20
odd,000 and I then I had him say four
more. So, uh, this afternoon when we
disband at 1:00,
uh, the, uh, area right behind us that
has all the goods in it in the
bookstore,
uh, they will sell the final four and
when we get all through, I'll match
whatever we've raised for the the 20
and, uh, and we'll give the, uh, Steven
Center
a boost both in financially, but also in
awareness. Uh, so anyway,
[Applause]
that and when you look at that
book, Carrie really did the whole thing.
I mean, there's a lot of information in
there. She dug through it and and she
came through a couple times maybe to
check a fact or two, but she she she got
all she got material from the Munger
family. She she just did a wonderful job
and and and
uh I I I I couldn't get her to take a
penny for it. So, I'm going to ask her
to do a lot of other things in the
future.
But okay. Uh with that, I think we've
we've covered all
the the business. So, uh, we will move
to Becky questions that she's received
from I don't know how many she's
received, but from all over the country
and perhaps outside the country, and
she's picked out a group of them, which
uh she has not shared with me uh and uh
we will
alternate questions between Becky and uh
the audience which we have by zones and
and uh and with that I will
uh turn things over Becky for the first
question.
Thanks Warren. Um this first cut
question comes from Bill Mitchell. I
received more questions about this than
any other question. He writes, "Warren,
in a 2003 Fortune article, you argued
for import certificates to limit trade
deficits and said these import
certificates basically amounted to a
tariff, but recently you called tariffs
an act of economic war. Has your view on
trade barriers changed or do you see
import certificates as somehow distinct
from tariffs?" Yeah. Well, the import
certificates were distinct, but they
they their goal was to balance
u imports against exports and so that
the trade deficit would
not grow in an enormous way. In fact, it
would have and it had various other
provisions in it to to help uh
uh third world countries as that time as
they were called to perhaps catch up a
little bit. uh and they they had a
variety of aspects to them, but
basically they were designed to balance
trade and uh I think you can make some
very good arguments for the fact that
balanced trade is good for the world and
the more balanced trade there is the
better. It will continue to be better
for cocoa to be raged in Ghana and
coffee and Colombia and a few things.
And and over
time the
uh American industry has gone from
being an agricultural country. This was
this was nothing but an egg country. I
mean that uh virtually uh and that was
only 250 years ago. And we have become a
very industrial country and uh we did
not want to make that a situation
uh in my view uh where we ran uh greater
and greater deficits building up greater
and greater debts against the country.
So I I designed this uh import
certificate thing which uh Charlie
thought was a little rub too much like
Rub Goldberg. I don't know whether that
time name is but it's gimmicky but uh
it's certainly a lot better than
anything I I think than we're talking
about now and there's no
question that
trade trade can be an act of war and uh
and I think it's led to bad
things just the attitudes it's brought
out
uh in the United States. I mean, we
should be looking to trade with the rest
of the world and we should do what we do
best and they should do what they do
best and uh I don't think
it that's that's what we did originally.
I mean, we were good at producing
tobacco and cotton uh uh 250 years ago
and we and we traded it and uh uh we
want a prosperous world uh with eight
countries with
nuclear weapons, including a few that
are what I would call quite unstable. I
do not think it's a great idea to try
and design a world where a few countries
say, "Haha, we've won." And uh uh other
countries uh are
envious.
[Applause]
So, so my my import certificate idea
which went no place. Uh uh I think we've
got extra copies with not a great demand
for the copies. Uh if
anybody and if you'd like and write the
office, I think we could we could
probably send you a copy of it. But the
main thing to do is not use trade should
not be a weapon.
And the United
States, United States, we've won. I
mean, we have become an incredibly
important country starting from
nothing 250 years ago. There's nothing
been anything like it.
And it's a big mistake in my view when
you
have 7 12 billion people that uh don't
like you very well and you got 300
million that are crowing in some way
about how well they've done. And uh uh I
don't think it's right and I don't think
it's wise. Uh I do think that the
more the more the more prosperous the
rest of the world becomes. It won't be
at our expense. The more prosperous
we'll become and with and the the the
safer we'll feel and your children will
feel someday. Uh, so
that's but don't ex don't expect my
import certificate idea to go to up down
there with Adam Smith's wealth of
nations or
anything.
Okay. Uh, let's go
to area
one. Mr. Buffett, U, Mr. Abel, and Mr.
Jane. Good morning. Uh, I'm St. J. I'm
from Hong Kong. Mr. Buffett and Mr.
Monger did a very good and successful
investment in Japan in the past five or
six years. The recent CPI in Japan is
currently above
3%. Not far away from its 2% targets.
Bank of Japan seems very determined in
raising rates while Fed ECB and other
central banks are considering to cut
them. Do you think BOJ, Bank of Japan
makes sense to proceed the rate hike?
Will is planned rate hike deter you from
further investing Japanese stock market
or even considering to realize your
current profits. Thank you very much for
arranging this greatest event every
year. Finally, I wish you healthy always
and keep holding this
shareholding. Thank
you. Well, I'm going to extend the same
goodwill to Japan that you've just
extended to me. I I I
I let the people of Japan determine
their best course of action in terms of
economics. It's it's an
incredible story. Uh and uh uh five it's
been about six years now as you pointed
out. I was just going through a little
handbook
uh that probably had two or three
thousand Japanese companies in it. Um,
one problem I have is that I can't read
that handbook anymore. The the print's
too small. But, uh, the uh, and here
were these five trading companies. They
have a special name for them in Japan,
but they were selling at ridiculously
low prices. And uh, so I spent
about a year acquiring them. And then we
got to know the people better. and
everything that Greg and I saw we like
better as we went along. So we got
fairly close to the 10% limit that we we
told the companies we would never exceed
without their permission. And uh so we
did ask them reasonably whether that
limit could be relaxed and it's in the
process of being relaxed somewhat.
Um,
we I I would I would say that I'll speak
for Greg beyond me that I in the next 50
years. Uh, and I hope he's running
things. Uh, we we won't give a thought
to to selling those. I mean they had uh
uh and uh Japan's
record has been extraordinary actually
in terms of that
uh uh my guess is that Tim would tell
you Tim Cook would tell you that iPhone
sales there are about as great as any
country outside the United States.
American Express would tell you that
they sell their product very very well
in Japan. Coca-Cola that we do business
with.
Another big investment of ours, they do
extraordinarily well in Japan. They have
a number of habits in uh in a
civilization that operates differently
than ours. Uh Japan is by far the
biggest. Uh
they this is the container they've
always preferred
uh for soft drinks and and they have uh
they have a whole different sort of
distribution system there. But we have
been treated extremely well by the five
companies. They they they talked with
Greg primarily. Uh, I went over there
year or two ago, but uh, Greg
Greg's Greg's more cosmopolitan than I
am, so he's
he'sn't saying much actually, but uh,
very little.
And but he
is I don't How many times do you think
you've met with representatives of one
company, the other? Yeah, when you think
of the five, there's definitely a couple
meetings a year, Warren. And I think the
thing we're building with the five five
companies is one, it's it's been a very
good investment, but we are really, as
Warren touched on, we we envision
holding the investment for 50 years or
or forever. But I think we also are
building relationships to do incremental
things with each of those companies. And
we really do hope to do big things with
them uh globally. They bring different
perspectives and different opportunities
and we see and that's the uh that's why
we're building that long-term
relationship with them. It's super
long-term and and and they have a much
they have a they have different customs.
They have different uh approaches to
business. That's that's true around the
world. And
uh and uh we're we we don't have any
intention in any way of trying to change
what they've done because do because
they they do it very successfully and uh
and our our
our main activity is just to is just to
cheer and clap and uh and that I can
still do it 94. Uh so
uh we will own
[Applause]
those, you know, we we will
uh we we will not be selling any stock.
I mean that is just it's that that will
not happen
uh in in decades if then. Uh and I my
guess is that they will find things
because they cover the world pretty
much. Uh the five trading companies, we
will find things
occasionally
that may be very
large for any individual company there.
Uh they may in some way be assisted by
some some help we bring to the
situation.
Uh but but that will be an expanding
relationship. Uh it's too bad that
Bergkshire has gotten as big as it is
because we love that position and I'd
like it to be a lot larger than than it
is. that even with the five companies
being they're very large companies and
they're large companies in Japan
uh and we've
got at market that you know in the in
the range of $20 billion invested but
I'd rather I'd rather have a hundred
billion than 20 billion and that's the
way I feel about several other
investments we have but uh size is an
enemy
uh a
performance at Bergkshire and
uh I don't know any good way to solve
that problem but but uh Charlie always
told me that having a few problems was
good for me. I never quite understood
that but
he if you listen to I moralize you would
understand and uh and and it's not an
impossible problem at all that uh and
the Japan the Japan investment is has
just been right up our alley. You want
to add anything on that?
No, I think uh you've touched it, but
um as you said, it's right up our alley
and I I absolutely agree, Warren. I I do
believe we'll see some very large
opportunities long term and that and
that's just been a great plus of that
that relationship. Yeah. Yeah. I would
say they they they want to they would
like to present us with opportunities.
We would like to receive them. We've got
the money. We both get along well very
well with each other and they have
different they have some different
customs than than we have. Uh they drink
the number one Coca-Cola product they
drink over there something called
Georgia coffee. Uh so uh I'm I'm I
haven't converted them to Cherry Coke
and they're not going to convert me to
Georgia
coffee. But it's it's a perfect
relationship. I just wish we had could
get more like it. Uh uh and I never
dreamt of that when I picked up that
little wasn't so little. Was about that
thick
but sometimes two companies to a page
and and a couple thousand pages I
believe. But it's amazing what you can
find when you just turn turn the page.
We showed a movie last year that uh
about turn every
page and I would say that turning every
page
uh is one important ingredient to bring
to the investment field. that uh and
that very few people do turn every page
and the ones who turn every page aren't
going to tell you what they're finding.
So you you got to do a little of it
yourself. Okay.
Uh Becky,
this next question comes from Advate
Prasad in New York. He writes, "Today,
Berkshire holds over $300 billion in
cash and short-term investments,
representing about 27% of total assets,
a historically high figure compared to
the 13% average over the last 25 years.
This has also led Berkshire to
effectively own nearly 5% of the entire
US Treasury market. Beyond the need for
liquidity to meet insurance obligations,
is the decision to raise cash primarily
a d-risking strategy in response to high
market
valuations? Or is it also a deliberate
effort to position Birkshshire's balance
sheet for a smooth smoother leadership
transition, providing Greg Ael with
maximum flexibility and a clean slate
for future capital allocation decisions?
And I will add one line from another
shareholder, Mike Conway, who asks, "Are
you encouraged you may see some fat
pitches coming your way?" Yeah.
Well, I wouldn't do anything nearly so
noble as to withhold investing myself
just so that Greg could look good later
on.
[Applause]
Now if he if he gets any edge what I
believe I'll resent it. So the
uh now the the amount of cash we have
is we we we would spend
well we came pretty close to spending 10
billion not that long ago for example
but we'd spend a hundred billion. I mean
and and those decisions are not tough to
make. uh when when something is offered
that is that uh makes sense to us and
that we understand and uh offers good
value and where we don't worry about
losing. And the one problem with the
investment business is
that things don't come along in an
orderly fashion and they never will. I
mean, it isn't like every day. Uh, you
know, the the long-term record is
sensational, but that is not a product.
And I've been
in, let's see, I've had
um 200 trading
days
times 80 years. And yeah, at
uh 16 million trading days, it been we
kind of uh uh I mean 16,000 trading
days. It it would be nice if every day
you got four opportunities or something
like that and you know you could and
they were expected to be equally
attractive. you know, if I if I was
running a numbers racket, you know,
every day would have the same expectancy
of that I would
keep 40% of whatever the handle was. And
so the only question would be is how
much we transacted. But we're not
running that kind of a business. And so
we're running a business which is very
very
opportunistic. And
uh Charlie always thought I did too many
things. uh he thought if we did about
five things in our lifetime, we we could
we could uh we'd end up doing better
than if we did 50 and and uh and that we
never concentrated enough. Uh so
that we would rather
have if we've got 335 billion now in
treasuries, we would rather have
conditions that have developed where we
would have like 50 billion or something
like that. But that that just isn't the
way the business works.
And we have made a lot of money by not
wanting to be fully invested at all
times. And uh
um we don't think it's improper
actually for people who are passive
investors just to make a few simple
investments
and sit with their life uh sit for their
life and them.
But we've made the decision to be in the
business. So uh we think we can do a
little better than
that by behaving in a very irregular
manner. But if you told me that I had to
invest
uh well our let's say that we have a
roughly 40 billion a year coming in and
we start with 335. If you told me I had
to
invest 50 billion every year till we got
down to 50 billion, that would be the
dumbest thing in the
world to invest in that manner. Things
get extraordinarily
attractive very
occasionally. The long-term trend is up.
Nobody
knows. And uh I certainly don't know.
Greg doesn't know. Ajet doesn't know.
Nobody knows what the market is going to
do tomorrow, next week, next month. And
nobody knows what business is going to
do tomorrow, next week or next month.
But they spend all their time talking
about it because
it's it's easy to talk about and uh but
it it it has no value. Uh I've never
found anybody I wanted to listen to on
the subject. And uh the on the other
hand, I found the leafing through things
like that big Japanese book that I can't
read anymore. Uh the uh it's it's a
that's a treasure hunt. And every now
and then you find something
and
occasionally, very occasionally, but
it'll happen again that uh I don't know
when it won't. It could be next week. It
could be 5 years off, but it won't be 50
years off. He will have we will be
bombarded with offerings that that uh
we'll be glad we have the cash for. And
it'd be a lot more fun if it would
happen tomorrow, but it's very unlikely
to happen tomorrow. Very very unlikely
to happen tomorrow, but it's not
unlikely to happen in five years. And
then it gets the probabilities get
higher as you go along. It's kind of
like death. I mean, if you're 10 years
old, the chances that you're going to
die the next day are low. Get to be
115 or something like that. It's almost
a cinch.
Uh, particularly if you're a male. I
mean, all the records are held by
females in terms of age. And
uh I tried to get Charlie to have a sex
change so he could test out
whether and
[Applause]
uh he did pretty well for being a male.
I'll put it that
way. Okay.
Station
station
two good morning Warren Greg and Ajit my
name is Jackie Han I'm from China and
now work in Toronto Canada this is my
eighth Birkshshire hustling meetings at
this point I've probably spent more time
with you than most people spend on
Netflix as you might guess coming from a
Chinese family we always had a soft spot
for real estate. So the your question
isn't why don't you own a house, it's
why are you still buying stocks instead
of more property? So here is my
question. With today's high interest
rates and global uncertainty, do you
still believe in being greedy when
others are fearful or the value
investing facing new challenges in
today's environment? Thank you. Yeah.
Well, in respect
to real estate, it's so much harder than
stocks in terms of
uh negotiation of deals, time
spent, the involvement of multiple
parties in the ownership. Usually when
when when real estate gets in trouble,
you find out you're dealing with more
than the equity holder. Uh uh but there
have been times when
uh large amounts of real estate
uh have changed hands at bargain prices,
but usually stocks were cheaper, but
they were a lot easier to do. So
uh Charlie did more real estate. Charlie
enjoyed real estate transactions.
uh and and he actually did a fair number
of them in the last 5 years of his life.
Uh but he was you know he was playing a
game that it was an interesting game to
him. Uh but I think if he you'd asked
him to make a choice when he was 21 and
he had to either be in stocks
exclusively the rest of his life or real
estate the rest of his life he would
have chose the stocks of the
second the there's just so much more
opportunity at least in the United
States there's so much more
opportunity that presents
itself in the security market and does
in real estate. And in real estate,
you're dealing with a usually dealing
with a single owner or a family that
owns maybe a large property they've had
a long time. Maybe they've borrowed too
much of money against it. Maybe the
population trends are against them. But
but to them, it's an
enormous decision. When you walk down to
the New York Stock Exchange, you can do
billions of dollars worth of business
totally anonymous. And you can do it in
5 minutes and the trades are complete
when they're complete. In real estate,
when you make a deal, a big deal with a
distress
lender, you know, when you sign the
deal, then you go into another phase. I
mean, then people start negotiating more
things and more things and it's it's
it's a whole different game and a
different type of person to some extent
enjoys the game. Uh
uh we uh we we did a few real estate
deals that came our way in 2008 and
nine, but but the the amount of time
that they would take us compared to
doing something intelligent and probably
better. Uh and securities,
uh there was just no comparison. I mean,
in a real estate deal, every every
sentence is as important to the person
and and in stocks,
uh, if somebody needs to sell 20,000
shares of Berkshire or something and
they call us and the price is right,
it's done in 5 seconds and and it closes
all the time. that uh uh people who you
certainly wouldn't want to have marry
your daughter
or they behave well actually
um in in in in socks. Partly that's
because that they're probably having
their their wires or phones or whatever
it is uh recorded as to what they've
said and everything. But but the the
completion rate for working on anything
in stocks is if assuming you're got a
meeting of the minds on prices
essentially 100% in real estate. It just
begins when you agree on deals and then
they take forever. So that for a guy 94
it's it's not it's not at the most
interesting thing to get involved in
something where the where the
negotiations could take years. uh and
uh we we have the
capability. There have been some huge
failures in in in
fact it uh if you go all the way back to
Zechonorf in the 1960s he was going to
change the world and Century City out in
California is a product of his and and
if you go to uh Urus if you go
to he was sitting on top of the world
with the earth buildings and uh
so people tend to get in trouble in that
business.
Uh the banks usually don't want to
recognize it, but that takes a long time
to go through the through the bank
processes. They just got through
redoing the Musk cologne that he made
when he was buying it three years ago.
uh uh the company that's now X and you
know 3 years to work out a transaction
that uh or you've got parties on both
sides that aren't ready to act that we
find it much better when people are just
ready to pick up the phone and you can
do hundreds of millions of dollars worth
of business in the day. I've been
spoiled but I like being spoiled so
we'll keep it that way.
Okay, Becky.
Um, this question comes from Sam England
in San
Francisco and it's for Warren and A. As
AI systems become more capable and
harder to interpret, how do you see that
affecting the insurance industry's
ability to assess, price, and transfer
risk? Are there parallels to past
disruptions Bergkshire has navigated in
underwriting or capital allocation?
Okay, Becky, and G's got about a 100
points of IQ on me, and he's just going
to be here this morning, so I'm going to
let him answer the question first. Well,
uh, there is no question in my mind that
AI is going to be a real gamecher and
it's going to change the way we assess
risk, we price risk, we sell the risk
and then the way we end up paying
claims. Having said that, I certainly
also feel that people end up spending
enormous amount of money trying to chase
the next new new fashionable thing. We
uh are not very good in terms of being
the being the fastest or the first
mover. Our approach is more to wait and
see until the opportunity crystallizes
and we have a better point of view in
terms of risk of failure, upside
downside. So right now the individual
insurance operations do dabble in AI and
try and figure out what is the best way
to exploit it. But we have not yet made
a conscious big-time effort in terms of
pouring a lot of money into this
opportunity. And my guess is we will be
in a state of readiness and should that
opportunity pop up we'll be in a state
where we'll jump in promptly.
Yeah. And I was just add I wouldn't
trade I wouldn't trade everything that's
developed in AI in the next 10 years for
for a G. So if you gave me a
choice that
uh
uh gave me a choice
of having a hundred billion dollars
available to participate in the
insurance property casualty insurance
business for the next 10 years. and I
had a choice of getting the top AI
product out of
whoever's whoever's developing it or
having a Jeep making the decision. I
would I would take a Jeep
[Applause]
anytime and I'm not kidding about
that. Okay, station three.
Hello, I'm Sean Seagull from Chicago,
Illinois. Thank you for investing your
time to you and the executive committee
for putting on this meeting and for
bringing together a diverse group of
people in attendance under one roof.
Out of all the companies that
Birkshshire Hathway owns, there was one
that you acquired, the Chicago based
company, Portillos, Hot
Dogs. How did you know that this would
be a good fit for the overall company's
portfolio? Well, I'll have to ask Greg
about that because I don't know anything
about it. So, maybe he bought it when I
was looking the other way, but
I think I got to call a friend on this
one. Uh yeah, I I
u I we own a lot of companies, but I do
like to think I know most of them, but
but the
uh
uh and and maybe a subsidiary of a
subsidiary in some way, but but I I
really don't know a thing about it. I'm
sorry, but that that may be a good
thing. I do know something about hot
dogs, though.
and and we do have a lot of companies in
Chicago, Warren. Yeah. Through Marman
and that's been a great opportunity
where we've accumulated a a variety of
uh excellent companies under that
portfolio. But as you noted,
uh I don't believe Portillos falls under
that. No, I I look at I I look at
the financial
statements of about Yeah. perhaps 50 or
60 of our companies
uh every every month
uh but in the case of Marman for example
Marman itself owns over a hundred
companies and uh yeah it uh it was the
creature of it was created by Jay
Pritsker and uh and his brother Bob and
it was a remarkable company when we
bought it but But it was highly
diversified already and then we've
diversified it further. So it is it is
something of a birker within
Bergkshire and uh
uh we found we found that that's working
uh very good as arrangement. It it was
interesting. Jay
Pritsker was a uh
uh remarkable manager and there's
various branches of the Pritsker family.
So you
you'll it's
it's really goes back to A and Pritsker
before J and so on. But in in
54, they changed the federal tax
code very dramatically in the United
States. It was quite a blow to me
because I've been at Colombia and I'd
been reading a JK Lasser book about the
tax code and then they went and changed
the whole damn thing. So it but 54 was a
big year, big change. Those years come
every now and then like 1986 and uh and
you may see a big one one of these days.
Uh,
and there was a company called Rockwood
Chocolates in in U Brooklyn and they
made Rockwood Chocolate Bits, which we
used to sell at the Buffett grocery
store and people made chocolate chip
cookies out of them and everything. And
uh then it turned out that cocoa, which
lately has had a big run too, cocoa was
5 cents a pound in 1941 when LIFO was
first allowed for for insurance for for
tax
purposes. And the Rockwood chocolate
company went
into on the LIO message. So they they
owned like 30 million pounds or
thereabouts of Coco. And then Coco took
a run in
1955. And I had just moved to New York.
And uh uh there was a provision in the
new tax code that if you were in two or
more companies
uh and you did certain things and you've
been in them for 5 years and you got out
of one of them that there would be no
capital gains tax unlike all inventory
gains and tax rates were around 48%
maybe 52% and so you there was this huge
profit this cuz um uh
the cocoa had gone up in price, but that
made it terrible for them in selling
Rockwood chocolate bits because the
price of retail of the chocolate bits
did not match what was going on at
wholesale. Something almost identical
has been happening in the chocolate
business recently. Hershey chocolate
just came out said they're going to have
a bad quarter and we're paying
$4.50 a pound for chocolate that from co
because things are going on in West
Africa that that make uh cocoa prices go
up dramatically. In any
event, Jay
Pritsker bought
control of Rockwood the chocolate
company. And like I say, I was 24 or
five years old. And they called the
meeting
to split off
the to
uh one one of the chocolate businesses
in a way that would then enable them to
to recognize the gain on this these
cocoa beans without paying 50% roughly
50% federal taxes on the gain. So I went
to the meeting which was in
Brooklyn and nobody was there. This is
in the turn every page category except
one guy and I was 24 and he was 29 and
it was Jay Pritsker and nobody had
showed up at the meeting and it was kind
of a crummy building they had but they
had a lot of coco there and Jay just
gave me a lecture or a lesson really I
should say on on the tax code and I mean
it would I I could have gone to graduate
school for years and never learned as
watch as he did. And then
later we actually bought the
company that Rockwood Company after he
did some other things became the basis
for
Marman. and Marman among other things
uh developed the car that uh won the
first Indianapolis Speedway race and uh
it invented the rear view mirror which
I'm not sure is a
great great advantage in economics or
anything but but uh the guy that would
they used to have on the
Indianapolis 500 they had two people in
the Our one guy was to look back and see
what the other people were doing and the
other guy was to drive the car and our
guy got sick and uh so they invented a
rear view mirror. So if you want to look
at the kind of you know what's going on
in the laboratories of Berkshire
Hathaway and we we got people working on
things like the rear view mirror. A a
Warren. Yep. I'm happy uh a friend did
call.
Um so that's that still works.
Um Pet Peter Eastwood who runs uh one of
our Berkshire subsidiaries and does a
great job of running it uh tracked down
that Portello's is owned by a private
equity firm called Berkshire Partners.
So that was the basis of the question,
but it's not associated with uh with
Berkshire. So, we got we got to the
bottom of that one. Yeah. Thank you,
[Music]
Peter. That's just a sample of the way
we operate around.
Okay, Becky.
All right. This question comes from
Jessica Pune who says, "You've long been
a strong believer in the American
tailwind and the resilience of the
United States, and history has proven
you correct. Today, the US appears to be
undergoing significant and potentially
revolutionary changes. Some investors
are now questioning the concept of
American exceptionalism.
In your view, are investors being overly
pessimistic about the US economy or is
the country indeed entering a period of
fundamental change that requires a
reassessment from a new perspective?
Well, I would say that Jessica, who I
believe is in
some she is the uh stepgranddaughter of
one of our managers that I I mentioned
in the annual report, may not be the
same one. But in any event, uh America's
been America's been
insignificant and revolutionary changing
really ever since it was developed. I
mentioned that, you know, we started out
as an agricultural
society. We started out as a society
with with high promises and we didn't
deliver on very well. We we said all men
were created equal. And then we wrote a
constitution that said blacks get three
counted as three fifths. And and in
article two, you you'll find male
pronouns used 20 times and no female
pronouns used. So, you know, it took
till 2000, I
mean, you know,
2000 or 1920, I should say, uh, till the
19th until the 19th amendment was
passed, saying, "Oh, yeah, we promised
the women this back in 1776, and now
we'll do something about it." And then
we didn't do something about it for a
long time. So, we're always in the
process of change. will always find all
kinds of things to criticize
uh in the country but the luckiest day
in my life is the day I was born you
know because I was born in the United
States and at the time
about 3% of all the births in the world
were taking place in the United States
and uh I'd like to say that I had
something to do you know listen so sent
messages out to My parents for God's
sakes moved to the United States before
I born or anything. But I was just lucky
and I was lucky to be born. I was lucky
to be born white. I was l all kinds of
things. But it's been if you don't think
the United States has changed since I
was born in 1930. It's been we've gone
through all kinds of things and gone
through great recessions. We've gone
through world wars. we've gone through
the development of a atomic bomb that
that
uh we never dreamt of, you know, at the
time I was born. So I I would not get
discouraged about the fact that that
never doesn't look like if we've solved
every problem that's come along. And uh
uh if I were being born today, you know,
I I would just keep negotiating in the
womb until they they said you can be in
the United States. So it uh uh we're all
pretty
lucky. Do you want to give any We've got
two non United States guys here just to
get the other side
who now live in the US.
Okay. Station four.
Hi, Mr. Buffett. My name is Daniel and
I'm from Tennifly, New Jersey. First of
all, I just want to say how grateful I
am for getting the opportunity to ask
you a question. When it comes to your
principles of investing, you often talk
about how important it is to be patient.
Has there ever been a situation in your
investing career where breaking that
principle and acting fast has benefited
you? Thank you.
Well, that's a good question. And
uh there are times when you have to act
fast. In fact,
uh we made a great deal of money because
we're willing to act faster than anybody
around.
Uh Jessica Tombs is I I think she's the
stepdaughter of of um our stepg
granddaughter of Ben Rosner, a manager
of ours. And in
1966, I got a call from a fellow named
Fel Steiner in New York, and he said, "I
I represent
uh Mrs.
Annenburgg. Uh, and there were there
were actually nine Anenburgg sisters, I
believe, before War Anenberg came along
as the son. But he said, "We have a
business we'd like to sell you." So, I
called Charlie up and uh I got a few
details and it sounded very interesting
and uh
uh Charlie and I went back to the
office of Will Felsteiner in New York
was a marvelous guy. Never met him
since, but uh he was handling things
for Mrs.
Uh well, ace a a Simon Butchune and her
name was
Annberg and her husband had been the
partner of of Ben Roer, but he had died
and uh
and Ben got kind of tense about working
with her. Uh and so he u offered us this
business at a bargain price. He offered
us a business for $6 million. It had $2
million of cash. It had a $2 million
piece of property in a 900 block of of
u what's the key street in Philadelphia
down there? Market Street. And uh and it
was making 2 million a year pre-tax. And
the price was 6 million. and Charlie and
I went back to this place and
uh Ben Rosner was there and he really he
just was upset about doing business with
his his partner's widow. He was she was
extremely wealthy and uh and he just
didn't he wasn't enjoying it. He was
very nervous about selling it. And he he
said to me and Charlie, he said uh
um he said, "I'll run this business for
you until December 31st and then I'm out
of
here." And I got Charlie and we went out
in the hallway and I said, "If this guy
quits at the end of the year, you can
throw away every book on psychology I've
ever read."
happy. And so that began a wonderful we
bought the company, had a great
relationship. And did I know that
morning when I got a phone call uh from
Will Fsteiner, there was background
about it. Uh
uh I' I've had a couple of
times and that was one of them where
people in the
east felt that they had a
a stereotype in their mind of what
people from the Midwest were like. And
uh Ben had been married, his first
marriage was to a woman from Iowa. and
he just figured that anybody from the
Midwest was okay. And uh the trick when
you do when you get in business with
somebody or get in a room with somebody
like that and they want to sell you
something for $6 million that's got 2
million of cash and couple million of
real estate and it's making 2 million a
year.
Uh you
don't you don't want to be patient then.
You want to be patient and waiting to
get the occasional call. My phone will
ring sometime, you know, and with
something that, you know, wakes me up. I
may be sleeping in there or something,
but it it you just never know when it'll
happen. And that's what makes it what
makes it fun. I mean it it uh uh
so
patience it it's a combination of of of
patience and a willingness to do
something that afternoon if it comes to
you. You don't want to be you don't want
to be patient about about acting on
deals that make sense and you don't want
to be very patient with people are
talking to you about things that will
never happen. So,
uh, it's it's not a it's not a constant
asset. It's not a constant liability to
be patient. Greg, you Well, Warren, I
was going to add, uh, as you're being
patient, I I happen to know, and I think
that goes for our uh, Ajit also and all
our managers. uh very patient when we're
looking at opportunities and as you
touched on we want to act quickly but
while we're being patient um never
underestimate the amount of reading and
work that's being done to be prepared uh
to act quickly because we we do know be
it equities but I would include a
variety of of private companies that
when the opportunity presents itself
we're ready to act and and that's a
large part of uh being patient is is
using it to be
prepared. Yeah. And and of course it it
doesn't come in anything like an even
flow. I mean it's the most
uneven sort of activity you could get
into. And uh
uh the main thing you have to do is you
have to be willing
to hang up after 5 seconds and you have
to be willing to say yes after 5
seconds. And and uh
uh you can't you can't be filled with
self-doubt in the business. You just
forget it isn't going to work. That uh
uh go into some other activity. uh uh
but you
also I mean one of the great pleasures
it is the great pleasure actually in
this business is having people trust you
and that's that's really the why why
work at 90 when you've got more money
than anybody could count you know if
they started today and had machines
there helping them and everything else
it that it means nothing in terms of of
uh how you're going to live or how your
children are going to live or anything
else. Uh and uh but it it it and but
both Charlie and I, we just enjoyed the
fact that people trusted us and they
trusted us 60 years ago or 70 years ago
and and and partnerships we had and uh
we never sought out professional
investors to join our
partnerships. Among all my partners, I
never had a single institution. I never
I never wanted an
institution. I wanted people and I I
didn't want people that were sitting
around and having people present to them
every 3 months and and tell them what
they wanted to hear and all that sort of
thing. So, and and that's what we got
and that's why we've got this group here
today. So, it it's all worked out. But
that
uh
it
it's you don't want to be patient when
things are going your when when the time
comes to act. It uh you you want to get
it done that
day. Okay, Becky.
This question is from Flavio Montenegro,
a shareholder from
Guatemala. Um a couple of years ago in
this meeting, Mr. Jane outlined the
significant challenges GEICO faced in
modernizing and integrating its IT
systems. It was also mentioned that
competitors were ahead in their pricing
strategies because of the use of
telematics. Today, GEICO's turnaround is
evident through strong pricing and
operational improvements. Could you
provide more details on the specific
actions taken under Todd's leadership
and how those changes will help sustain
a long-term competitive advantage in the
coming years? Yeah. Uh Todd has done a
great job for us in terms of turn
turning around the
operations. When he took over uh there
were two
major issues that Geico was behind its
competitors on. Firstly, the term we
used and we all have been using is
matching rate to risk and secondly
telematics.
We were at the bottom of the list in so
far as telematics are concerned about 5
6 years ago. Uh since then we have made
rapid strides and telematics which used
to be a source of competitive
disadvantage to us is no longer so and I
would argue that our telematics at Geico
is about as good as anyone else's today.
So that's been one huge catch up.
Secondly, in terms of matching rate to
risk, there again, I think we have
caught up with our competitors and we as
good as anyone else in in the field. All
this together with the cost reduction
effort that Geico and Todd gets a lot of
credit for, he has basically reduced the
workforce by 20,000. starting with
something close to 50 odd,000, he's
brought it down to 20,000 and that
translates to uh I guess at least $2
billion per year. So all this has
allowed Geico to become a much focused
competitor. So much so in the last seven
quarters, Geico has shown a combined
ratio that has a eight in front of it.
And I never thought I'd live to see the
day when anyone could have a combined
ratio at so low as it is right now. So I
think Geico has done a great job. Uh
it's 80 combined translates to the the
largest profit anyone is making on the
underwriting side in the personal
automobile business. So you know we've
achieved a lot. Todd has achieved a lot.
But I do not want to be so arrogant as
to say that mission accomplished. Uh
we've achieved a lot but I still think
we need to do a lot more in technology.
AI as we talked about is going to be a
big force and we need to play catchup
there. Not catchup but we are to be in a
state of readiness. So I think Geico is
in a great shape right now. Uh did
Warren you want to add anything? No, I
it's it's
it's a fascinating case study, but and
that's what's so interesting about the
whole game of business, but particularly
about our businesses is that that each
one is a little different. Uh but
they're all they all have challenges of
certain sorts and but they also many
certain numbers have opportunities. We
we
paid $50 million for half of GEICO in
1976. what turned out to be half a
geico. 50
million 50 50
uh we now own 100% but 50% of two
billion that we earned in the first
quarter is a billion dollars which on a
$50 million investment is you know 20
for one in a quarter. Uh so
it you know now that takes years to
develop but the interesting thing is the
auto insurance policy which didn't even
exist 100 years ago. I mean you you
didn't you just well I should say 120
years ago. Uh but there it's by far the
largest item in the property casualty
insurance business. It's it's huge. The
the only thing I'd like to add is in
addition to the underwriting profit,
GEICO provides $29 billion a float. Oh
yeah. In addition, yeah. And that's not
unimportant when you paid $50 million to
get the businesses. It's giving you $29
billion to work with for nothing. And on
top of that gives you a billion dollars
of of profit in a quarter.
Uh the interesting thing about auto
insurance is that that we are the
company was started in 1936. We're
selling the same product as 1936. We're
we're being more sophisticated about
pricing it than we were then. Somebody
just made the judgment. a fellow that
came from USAA
uh made the judgment that that
government employees the name Geico
stands for government employees
insurance company that government
employees were better drivers than
average and
uh I don't think he was an actuary or
anything else but he just made an
observation and uh so he left USAA which
is still a very successful company and
he started Geico for a few
hundred,000 and he made money the first
year from my underwriting. He made money
the second year. This is not a public
offering type thing to you know use
phony accounting for 10 years and all
that sort of thing just prices to make
money and uh that's exactly what's been
done since 1936. the policy really, you
know, your insurance, your auto
insurance policy that looks a lot like
the one that you had then. And this huge
field has sprung up uh around us and
it's still growing and and of course
nobody likes to to buy insurance, but
they sure like to
drive and and and uh uh Geico is a
fascinating story. And about three times
over the years, the company is
gotten sidetracked one way or another
and uh and then it gets back to its
basics and and it's a wonderful
wonderful business and and uh we showed
at this annual meeting one time a a uh
message from Laura
Murdavidson and Lauren Murdavidson
in in January of
1950 was the only person in the
ing that uh I'd gone down on a Saturday
to visit but turned out they didn't work
on Saturdays in Washington and I pounded
on the door till finally a janitor let
me in and I said to the janitor is there
anybody I can talk to here except you
and he didn't take it personally and he
said well there's one guy up on the
sixth floor and a fellow named Larmer
Davidson did wonderful things for me you
you get a
breaks in life in terms of people you
will meet who can just change your life
dramatically. And uh if you if you you
need a handful of those and uh and when
you get them, you treasure them. And
we've had them on on this board at
Bergkshire.
You know, if you take Tom Murphy and
Sandy Goddisdman and Walter Scott and
Bill
Scott, we we one thing we've done is
we've held on
to the human assets. We've made lifelong
assets out of people that that are the
right sort. And uh with incredible
talent, but also just lots of fun to
work with and always doing more than
their share.
And you know it to get a chance to talk
to Lauren Davidson on a Saturday
afternoon, you just listen carefully. Uh
and that comes in
the in the category of turn every page.
You know, some of them you want to turn
pretty fast, but but uh
uh you just get lucky in life and you
want to take advantage of your luck.
Okay, station five.
My name is Benjamin Graham Sanderson
from Pasadena, California. Warren, thank
you for all you've taught us over the
years. Earlier, you said nobody but
Steve Jobs could have created Apple, but
nobody but Tim Cook could have developed
it like he
has. Warren, nobody but you could have
created Bergkshire. And I presume you
view Greg as an outlier among
outliers, but he seems so normal.
Sorry, Greg. Yeah, that's a nice way of
saying not normal, actually, but I
appreciate it.
So, I was hoping you could share what
specifically about Greg makes him your
preferred successor. And Greg, we're
excited to get to know you more over the
next few decades. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank
you. Well, you you've hit on the most
important question and know in terms of
the
business. We've got a wonderful group of
businesses. We've got a uh we've got an
ability to do things that nobody else
can do, which is hard to get in the
capitalistic system. It's been developed
as fully as as as the United States has
been. I mean,
imagine being able to create something
that is in a very very
very big playing field. I don't think
you'd really be very very hard to
develop anything like it. I don't think
you could develop the people around it
that let alone the capital position, you
know, and the history and everything
else. And the answer of course is that
it it does take a a long long time and
it takes getting around you
a
small cadre of people which then spreads
out somewhat. But
uh where you've got mutual trust
uh where people do more than their
share and I've been around a lot of
businesses over the
years and by nature I'm somewhat
critical of everything. I mean, I I I'm
looking for what's wrong in things
because that's part of investing is is
looking, you know, what aren't you? What
are you missing? Uh but we have
uh you know, we've got people that if
they're asked to put on a show like
this, instead of doing whatever their
regular job is, they they participated.
I went around the groups of people who
were exhibiting yesterday for an hour
and a half and these are people who are
thanking me, you know, and totally
enthused about coming and doing a lot of
work for which they don't get paid
anything extra. I don't know anything
about the arrangements the individual
companies make, but they they work hard
and they enjoy their work.
And
uh you know, you really want to work at
something you enjoy. I've always had
I've had five bosses in life and I liked
every one of them and they were all
interesting. I still decided that I'd
rather work for myself than anybody
else. But but if you if you find people
that are wonderful to work with, you
know, that's the place to go. And I've
I've told my kids that
basically you don't get lucky like I did
when I found it seven or eight years of
age. what really interested me, you
know, it could have taken a lot longer,
but but uh uh you want to uh find the
song, find the sound is uh there's a
movie called The Glenn Miller Story, and
Glenn Miller went on from having a
broken down band for 15 years to to uh
turning out the first he found the sound
and and uh and created the first gold
record. I don't know whether any of you
know what it was, but it was the
Chattanooga Chuju and in 1941, I think
it was. Uh, and he turned around from
being a a
nothing in with a band that he had till
he found the sound. And uh I always have
told my kids ever since that their their
their sound isn't my sound, you know,
but uh and you don't find it necessarily
on the first job you take cuz you got to
eat, you know, and but if you get lucky
like I did, you you find it be you find
it when you're very young and then, you
know, just keep doing it and uh
And don't worry don't worry too much
about starting salaries and don't worry
about about
uh and be very careful who you work for
because you will take on the habits of
the people around you. So there's
certain certain jobs you shouldn't take
and uh
but you've got the greatest country in
the world and you got the greatest time
in the world. So, uh, I would say
that that,
uh, well,
I while I'm handing this over to Greg
that, uh, that, you
know, you can't even dream all the
dreams that you could have about a place
like Berkshire. But big thing you have
to do though is always is to be sure you
can play the next day. I mean in terms
of in terms of
financial activities on a meaningful
scale
uh you know
you you don't want to go you don't there
was
a a book about what was the name of that
book uh you only have to get rich once I
mean you don't you don't want to do
anything that risks
uh what's been created. So you don't you
if if very stupid things are happening
around you, you do know not want to
participate. If people are making more
money because they're borrowing
money or they're participating in in
securities that are really pieces of
junk, but but uh but they they hope to
find a bigger sucker later on. You just
have to forget that it uh that'll bite
you at some point and and the basic game
is so good and you've been so lucky to
be born
now. I mean, if if I've been born
in 1700, I'd say, I want to go back in
the womb. What the hell with this? It's
too hard. And but now I've come along to
do something where I can just play
around all day with things I enjoy
doing. and uh and
uh it's really uh it's a pretty
wonderful
life. Anything Greg you want to add or
subtract from that?
nothing to subtract but um I I would
always just say I couldn't be more as
I've said in the past more humbled and
honored obviously to be in this role but
to to have actually been part of
Bergkshire for Warren it's now 25 plus
years had the opportunity to be part of
Berkshire and to to work with you and
Ajit and our our board but many other
people in our company and as you touched
on um when you find something like that
and you find something like that like
Bergkshire that's so special It's it you
fall in love with it and it's it becomes
just what you want to do every day and
it's just an incredible opportunity. So,
thank you.
[Applause]
And to the gentleman who asked the
question, if if you don't find it
immediately, you know, uh don't starve
to death or anything in the meantime,
but but but uh you will find it and and
you'll you'll find it in in the right
individual in in a sense. It's somewhat
like finding the right person in
marriage. I mean that
uh probably the first some of you
married may have married the person you
made met on your first date. Although I
guess they don't even have dates anymore
but but the uh
uh but you know it's it uh sometimes it
pays to wait
too. Okay, Becky.
Uh this is a question from Mark Bonnke
and Helen Friedrien in Rapid City, South
Dakota. As the US dollar quickly loses
value in relation to other foreign
currencies in 2025, is Berkshire
Hathaway taking steps to minimize this
currency risk and its impact on
quarterly and annual earnings? If so,
please explain. And I I'll just add from
Mary Chang, another shareholder.
Berkshire currently borrows in Japanese
yen to offset its currency risk and its
Japanese stock investments. In the
future, will you invest in foreign
currency denominated assets unhedged?
Yeah. Well, we always have um pretty
much uh the Japanese situation is
different because we we do intend to
stay so long with that position and the
funding situation is so cheap that u we
essentially have have attempted to some
degree to to match purchases against the
end
denominated of funding.
Uh but that's not a policy of ours. In
fact, that's the first time we we've
we've done that. And and we've owned
lots of securities of uh of of in in
foreign currency. So
uh we do nothing in in
u in terms of the question about its
impact on quarterly and annual earnings.
uh we don't do anything based on its
I mean, there's never been a board
meeting I can remember where I or a
conversation I had with Charlie when I
said where I say if we do this our
annual earnings will be this you know
and therefore we ought to whether it's
accounting or whe anything uh we just
you know the the number will turn out to
be what it'll be what counts as where we
are five or 10 or 20 years from now and
and if you start focusing on what number
you're going to produce. Uh you will
quickly get tempted, at least based on
the experience I've seen from viewing 20
companies, you will get so you'll one
way or another uh play around with the
numbers and sometimes seriously play
around with the numbers. And uh uh I've
seen people that
that you know I trust him in all kinds
of other ways but they regard playing
around with numbers is perfectly okay
and that's just not something you know
we just don't think about that. So uh
actually the the uh the end um
um
uh the relationship of the end behavior
of the end in the last quarter you know
resulted in
certain gap charges and uh but it
doesn't make it it doesn't make any
difference. it'll change next, you know,
next month or next year. And and
obviously, we wouldn't want to
be owning anything that we thought was
in a currency that was really going to
hell. And that's the big thing we worry
about with the United States currency. I
mean it the the
tendency of a
government
to want to debase its currency over time
is there's no system that beats that.
You you can pick dictators, you can pick
representatives, you can do anything.
But but the
people there there will be a a push
toward weaker currencies and of course
that is I mentioned very briefly in the
annual report that that the fiscal
policy is what scares me in the United
States
because it's it's made the way it is and
uh and uh all the
motivations are to doing a lot of things
that will cause can cause trouble with
with money. But that's not limited to
the United States. It's all over the
world and some places it gets out of
control regularly as you know they know
they know
no they
uh they devalue at rates that are
breathtaking and that's continued. I
mean, and you people can study economics
and you can have all kinds of
arrangements, but in the end, if you've
got people that control the currency,
uh you can you can issue
uh paper money and you will or you
can engage in clipping currencies like
they used to do centuries ago.
Or there will always be people
And it's the nature of their job. I
don't I don't I'm not singling them out
as particularly evil or anything like
that, but the natural course of
government is to is to make the currency
worth less
uh over time. And uh and that's got
important consequences. And it's very
hard to build checks and balances into
the system to keep that from happening.
And
uh we've had a lot of fun here in the
last either the first 100 days or the
last 100 days, whatever you want to call
it. The uh uh
watching what happens when people try to
make sure that they aren't running
fiscal risks and uh that game isn't over
and it never will be over.
it, you know, in
finality. If you
look if you look up in in
search the great
inflations
of post World War II, it's just a list
that goes on forever and the same names
keep popping up and everything. So
currency is a the value of currency is a
scary thing and and
uh
uh we don't have any great
system for beating that we do in this
particular Japanese position because we
expect to hold it for 50 or 100 years or
more and we will be owning something
that's denominated in the end and easily
predictable and we'll just as long as
the carry honored is right and
everything will will uh will attempt to
issue
uh Japanese denominated liabilities but
that that's not because of anything we
care about in terms of quarterly or
annual earnings. Greg, do you have
anything to say on that? I was just
going to say that relative to the
question that there's no question we
were fundamentally very comfortable with
investing in the five Japanese companies
and recognizing we're investing in yen.
The fact we could then borrow in yen was
a almost just like a nice incremental
opportunity. But we were very
comfortable both with the Japanese
companies and with the currency we would
ultimately realize i.e. in the yen.
Yeah, we we only made as I referred to
earlier one big currency
play which was connected a little bit
with when I wrote that article for
fortune and we got
long 12 other currencies as I remember
only four or five of them are really big
currencies but when when I say we got
long it that means we're short the
dollar and uh so we held that position
for a couple years and we we made
several billion dollars on it which was
significant to us then, still is. Uh the
uh Charlie always
felt that if if he had to pick an area
outside of stocks in which to
invest and he knew a lot about bonds, he
knew a lot about real estate, he knew a
lot about a lot of things. But he he
said the he thought he could he he
thought he could make a lot of money out
of being in foreign currency. But uh uh
we just we've done it once. It's not
inconceivable we would do it again, but
it's unlikely. Uh, but there could
be things
happen in the United States that would
make us want to own a lot of other
currencies. And I I suppose if we if we
made
some very large investment European
country or some there might be a
situation where we would do a lot of
financing in in their currency, but it's
it's not a
it it was something that just was sort
of obvious to do in the Japanese
situation where we had the ability to
borrow a very very low
carrying uh carrying cost and uh and we
felt very good about the income we'd be
receiving from these securities and we
and if the present condition which it
won't I mean it never does but pre
prevail
for decades and decades we would
probably keep doing the same sort of
thing but
uh things change in the world too. So
don't take that as a
prediction.
Okay, section
six. Uh good morning Warren and Greg
Ajit. Thank you so much for hosting this
event. Good to be here. My name is Dash
Boyinder and I'm from great country of
Mongolia. A little bit background about
my country. Mongol is an emerging market
and landlocked country sandwiched
between Russia and China. But we are
rich in history and minerals and have
full democracy and growing economy. Last
week, we hosted our second annual
Mongolia investor conference in New York
to attract investors like
yourself. I know you meet and give
advice informally to government leaders
such as South Korea, China, and India.
What advice would you give to government
business leaders of emerging markets
like Mongolia to attract institutional
investors like yourself? It'd be great
if you have long-term plans for exposure
to emerging markets as a hedge or an
opportunistic investment.
Lastly, I welcome all of you to Mongolia
and my country folks would be very happy
if you can make it to our economic forum
this
July. Oh, thank
you.
Yeah, I I have trouble planning a trip
to Council Bluffs, which is just a few
miles from here,
but takes an optimist. Uh actually I met
a fellow here at the annual meeting um
oh probably 20 years ago or more who did
a lot in Mongolia and uh
uh it he's he did very well in Mongolia
and uh actually moved there for quite a
while.
Uh I would say
that if if you're looking for advice to
give the government over there, it's to
develop a reputation for for having a
solid currency over time. I mean
that
we we
we don't really want to go into any
country where we think that there's a a
chance I mean a significant probability
of runaway inflation. It just it's too
hard to figure. People other people have
figured out ways to make money in in
hyperinflationary situations, but
uh that's not our game and I I I don't
think I'd play it well. So,
uh we wouldn't
be we that that would be that would be a
factor with us. the chances are and we
won't find anything in Mongolia that
fits our size requirements aside from
that. But I but like I say, I it uh I
think my friend that I met here 20 years
ago has done very well in in uh
Mongolia. And if if the country develops
a
reputation for
being businessfriendly and currency
conscious conscious
uh and I think that that bolds very well
for the the res the residents of that
country particularly if it has some
other natural assets that uh it can
build around. Uh, I don't know that much
about the minerals there or anything of
the sort, but but uh uh I mean who would
have been on the United States in 1790?
But uh
um
we we we didn't we didn't have to have
perfection. We just had to be better
than the other guy for quite a while.
And we started out with nothing and we
ended up with close to 25% of the
world's GDP and faster growth rates
and generally sounder currencies and all
kinds of things. But uh so uh I wish you
well. Okay,
Becky. This question is from Peter Shen
in New Jersey. Uh it's for Mr. Buffett
and Mr. Jane, in recent years, large
private equity firms like Blackstone,
Apollo, and KKR have aggressively
expanded into insurance, raising
permanent capital, managing float, and
aiming to replicate the model that
Bergkshire pioneered decades ago. Given
that these firms are now directly
competing for insurance assets, often
using higher leverage and more
aggressive investment strategies, how do
you view their impact on Berkshire's
insurance operations and underwriting
discipline? Do you believe that the qu
private equity model poses risks to
policy holders in the broad financial
system and has this competition made it
more challenging for Berkshire to find
and price insurance opportunities safely
and profitably today?
Okay. Yeah. Part of the question is very
easy. There's no question the private
equity firms have come into the space
and we are no longer competitive in this
space. We used to do a fair amount in
this space. Uh but in the last 3 four
years, I don't think we've done a single
deal. Now you ought to separate this
whole segment in two separate segments.
One is the property casualty end of the
business and the life end of the
business. Uh the private equity firms
that you mentioned are all very active
in the life end of the business, not the
property casualty end of the business.
uh you are right in identifying the
risks in these private equity firms are
taking on both in terms of leverage and
in terms of credit risk and while the
economy is doing great and credit
spreads are low these pe the private
equity firms who've taken the assets
from very
conservative investments and I wouldn't
say high octane but they've
certainly invested these assets in
situations where that where they get a
lot more uh return on the investment and
as I said as long as the economy is good
and credit spreads are low they will
make money they'll make a lot of money
because of leverage uh however there is
always the danger that at some point the
regulators might get cranky and say you
know you're taking too too much risk on
behalf of your policy holders uh and
that could end in tears is we do not
like the riskreward that these
situations offer and therefore we put up
the white flag and said, you know, we
can't compete in this segment right now.
Yeah, I
think there are people that want to
copy Burku's
model, but usually they don't want to
copy it by also copying the model of
the CEO having all of his money in the
company forever. And uh I mean they've
got a different equation. They're
they're interested in and and you know
and that's capitalism, but they have a
whole different uh situation and and
they probably have a somewhat different
fiduciary feeling
uh about what they're doing. And uh and
sometimes it works and sometimes it
doesn't work. And if it doesn't work,
they go on to other things. And if I
what we do here at Bergkshire doesn't
work, I spend the end of my life
regretting what I've created. So it it
uh it's just a whole different personal
equation. And
uh there is no property casualty
company
that can basically replicate Birkshire.
That that wasn't the case at the start.
I mean at the start we just had national
indemnity a few miles from here and
anybody could have
duplicated what we had but
uh but that was before a
G and
and the G came with us in 1986 and and
at that point the other fellow should
have given up.
[Applause]
Yeah. Station seven, please.
Hi, my name is Marie. I'm from Melrose,
Massachusetts. Thank you for the time
today. As a young person interested in
investing like myself, I would love to
hear your insights, Mr. Buffett. What
were some pivotal lessons you learned
early in your career? And what advice do
you have young for young investors who
are looking to develop their investment
philosophy? Thank
you. Well, those are good questions. I
wish I thought of them myself earlier in
my life. Uh
the you know who you associate with is
just enormously important and don't
expect
that you'll make every decision right on
that. I mean, but you you are going to
go into you're going to have your life
progress in the general direction of the
people that you that you work with, that
you admire, that become your friends. Uh
I mentioned a few fellows that
that have died in the last couple years.
Well, all of those people were people
that that that
uh you know, if we were working together
on something 1 10,000th the size of
Burkshire, I mean, they'd be the kind of
people you choose. You just they're
there people that make you want to be
better than you are. And you want to
hang out with people that are better
than you are and that you feel are
better than you are because you're going
to go in the direction of the people
that you you associate with. And uh and
that's that's something you learn and of
course you learn it late in life.
that
uh
you you
uh it's hard to really appreciate how
important some of those factors are
until you get much older. But when
you've
got people around
you like Tom Murphy and and like like
well like just name them Sandy Goddisman
that uh Walter Scott that uh you're just
going to live a better life than than uh
you do if you just go out and look at
somebody that's making a lot of money
and decide you're going to try and copy
him or something of the sort. Uh uh so I
would I would I would try
to I tried to be associated with smart
people too where I could learn a lot
from them and I would try to look for
something that I would do if I didn't
need the money. I mean what you're
really looking for life is something
where you've got a job that you'd hold
if you didn't need the money. And I've
had
that. Charlie had it for a very very
long time. In fact, all the fellows I
named uh had it and uh and they
also every one of those ones I named,
they always did more than their share
and they sought they never sought more
than their share of the credit. They
just behaved as the way you you'd like
anybody you you work with. And when you
find them, you treasure them and and
when you don't find
them, you still keep doing whatever
causes you to eat uh or enables you to
eat. But uh but you don't you don't give
up on on looking around and you will
find you'll find people do wonderful
things for you. I
mentioned I mentioned uh uh earlier the
you know going down to Geico and
knocking on the door when the door was
locked. I mean, who knows what was
behind that door. I went in, but but you
know, in 10 minutes, I found that I had
a man that
uh was going to be just wonderfully
helpful to me. And of course, if
somebody's going to be helpful to you,
you want to try to figure out ways to be
helpful to them. So, you get a
compounding of of good intentions and
good
behavior. And unfortunately, you can get
the reverse of that in life, too. and uh
and you know with a lot of I I was lucky
in having a a good
environment for uh living that kind of a
life and and other people you know have
a whole different environmental
situation they have to overcome it but
don't be don't feel guilty about your
good luck if you've got if if you know
if you've got uh well if you live in the
United States you you know
you you've you've
uh there 8 billion people in the world
and there's 330 million United States,
you've already won the game uh to a
great degree and then just keep making
the most of
it.
But you you don't want
to you don't want
to associate with people or
enterprises that ask you to do something
that or tell you to do something that
you shouldn't be doing. And
uh that's one of the problems. I mean
the different
professions select for different types
of people and uh
uh
there's it's interesting to me that in
the investment business
uh uh so many people get out of it after
they've made a pile of money that that
uh
uh it it you really want something that
you'll stick around for. you know
whether you need the money. Greg doesn't
need the money or G doesn't need the
money uh remotely and
they but they enjoy what they do and
they're so damn good at it. It's it it's
uh you know it just well I've had the
advantage of seeing how that works over
time.
the best manager I ever knew and there's
a lot of contention for who that would
be but actually was Tom Murphy senior
that uh who lived the the almost 98 and
uh I've never seen
anybody that could get the potential out
of other people
uh more
than than uh Murf. I mean, if if if if
you wanted to if you wanted to become a
better person, you went to work for for
Tom Murphy. And uh uh there are all
kinds of successful people
that really don't have that sort of
don't bring that to the party. And and
I'm not saying that's the only way to
succeed, but I think it's I think it's
the most pleasant way to succeed for
sure. And uh uh and I think
that you know the the Bergkshire
experience is pretty
dramatic. I mean to to operate
with Sandy Goddisman
from
1963 until he died a couple years ago.
And um Walter
Scott 30 years
and Craig operated with him for 25 years
or so, whatever it was. Yeah. 30. Yeah.
And and
uh you know, you really can't miss it.
Uh and you know, you you'll learn all
the time, but you'll you not only learn
how to be successful at business, you'll
learn how to be successful at life. And
uh uh
so
that's that's that's my recommendation
and that u and
uh and for some reason I apparently you
live longer too because it's pretty
amazing.
I mean, these people I'm talking about,
including myself, I mean I mean, you
know, you can I like to attribute it to
this and a few other things,
but I I I think a happy person lives
longer than somebody that that that's uh
doing some things that they don't really
admire that much in life.
Okay.
Uh let's move on to I guess it's Becky
next.
Um the first quarter ended March 31st
and it did show that Bergkshire's cash
pile expanded from the end of the last
year. But the greatest market turmoil
came in April. Martin Devine, a
shareholder from Scotland who is
attending the meeting today wants to
know, has the recent market volatility
presented Bergkshire with opportunities?
And Martin just wrote in an addendum in
the last 40 minutes or so pointing out
that you mentioned Bergkshire almost
invested $10 billion recently and
wanting to know if you could talk more
about that. Well, the I can give you a
good answer to the second part of which
is
no
but
it
the but 10 billion wouldn't have done
that much. You know that's the other
side another side of it.
Uh what has happened in the last
uh 30 30 45 days, 100 days, whatever,
whatever you want to pick up, whatever
this uh this uh period has been is is is
really nothing. There's been three times
since we acquired Bergkshire that
Bergkshire has gone down
50%. Uh in a fairly short period of
time, three different times. Nothing was
fundamentally wrong with the company at
any time. But but this is not a huge
move.
Uh the Dow Jones average
at 381 in September of 1929. they got
down to
42. So that's probably going from 100
uh to
11.
Uh this is not this has not been a
dramatic
uh bare market or anything of the sort.
I mean it uh it
it you know like
uh some pointed out if I've I've had
200 and 50 trading days a day, you know,
for however many years I've been old
enough to trade stocks that got 17 or
18,000 days. There's been plenty of
periods that that uh uh just are
dramatically different than this. I
mean, when the day I was born, the Dow
Jones was a
240 and my first that was August 30th,
1930. And between that and the low, it
went from 240 to 41. I
mean,
so if people think that
it made a really major change, it it
didn't if if it gone up 15% instead of
down 15%, people think they take that
with remarkable grace. But uh but uh if
it makes a difference to you whether
your stocks are down 15% or not, you
you're you're you need to get a somewhat
different investment philosophy because
the world is not going to adapt to you.
You're going to have to adapt to the
world. And you will see a period in the
next certainly in the next 20 years
you'll see a period that
that will be in what somebody in the
market described one time as a hair
curler compared to anything you've seen
before. I mean that's just it just
happens periodically. the world makes
big big big mistakes and
surprises happen in dramatic ways and
the more sophisticated the system gets
the more the surprises can be out of
right field that's that's just that's
part of the stock market and that's what
makes it a good place to to focus your
efforts if you got the proper
temperament for it and a terrible place
to get involved if if you get frightened
by markets that decline
and get excited when stock markets go
up. I don't mean to sound particularly
critical. I mean, I
know people have emotions, but you got
to check them at the door when you
invest.
Okay. Station 8,
please. Good morning, Mr. Maf. Mr. Greg
and Mr. AI. My name is Peter Chen. I'm
from Shanghai, China. This is my first
time attending this shareholders
meeting. I would like to ask a question
about the wisdom of
life. Have you ever encountered any
major setbacks or or low points in your
life and how did you get through and
overcome them? Thank you very much.
Yeah. Well, everybody gets setbacks and
uh and some people have particularly bad
luck in that respect and others get
through with fairly minors.
But Charlie, you know, but uh he had
setbacks, I had setbacks. I mean, it it
it's it's part of life and uh and
they're not any fun. I don't have any
great advice for you about about uh you
know having the time of your life while
you're having some major setback but but
uh it it you know it it comes with
lifetime you know but
uh you certainly have a setback when you
die and so everybody's got that setback
guaranteed to them and uh but some
people get and I mean It isn't a
laughing matter in a sense because I
mean
people get
extraordinary bad luck and other people
get extraordinary good luck. Usually the
people who get good luck don't really
think it was so much luck as themselves
but
but you're just going to have it. I
think you're going to I think that
you're less likely to have it in terms
of medical problems in terms of you know
various things in life. I mean you were
born at a good time. I mean
you if you look all the way through the
history of China when when would you
rather have been born you know 100 years
ago 500 years ago thousand years ago or
now you know it it it's just hands down
you'd be lucky. I mean, you know, if if
I came from 20 generations of shepherds,
I I I think I get kind of tired of, you
know, my life just looking at these
sheep every day. But, uh, you know, we
can sit here
and I can I can watch Nebraska not quite
played the same game of football that we
played 20 years ago, but but I mean,
everything in life has been made so much
better. uh that you've got to figure
that you do a lucky store straw by, you
know, staying in the womb for a couple
hundred thousand years and then just
emerging at at the right time. Uh so I
would I would focus on the things that
have been good in your life rather than
than
than the bad things that happen because
bad things do happen. But but uh it it
it it's
uh it it it can often be a wonderful
life. You can get terrible breaks in it.
I mean, you know, it
uh uh so far that really hasn't happened
with me, but it's happened with some of
my friends, but you get some bad breaks
from time to time.
Uh
uh but for 94 years I've been able to
drink whatever I want to drink. And you
know they they predict all kinds of
terrible things for me but it hasn't
happened yet.
So
and
yeah and it's true. I mean, if you look
at what pro football players are making
now and everything compared to what they
were making 30 or 40 years ago, you can
say, "Well, isn't that wonderful?" But
if you look at the if you look at the
lifespan of professional
athletes, after a while, you get used to
really decide that you're better off if
you
uh if you really weren't the first one
chosen to be on the baseball team or the
basketball team or anything.
anything else. The uh the human body
uh
well Charlie and I and I think I speak
for the others to some extent that and
we we never didn't we never really
exercised that much or did anything. We
were we were carefully preserving
ourselves for the years.
So, look at the bright side of things to
the extent that you can and that uh and
you know, you're lucky enough to you're
here today, you're healthy, you're you
come from a long distance and and uh and
you're getting a chance to learn more
about something that interests you and
uh compare that with the situation
couple hundred years ago that you would
have been offered.
So anyway, that's enough moralizing.
Okay, Becky.
Uh, this question comes from Himmanu
Bendal for Ajet and Warren. Um,
autonomous vehicles are already driving
across roads in American cities with no
driver involvement. How do Warren and
Ajet think about any disruption risk
from these autonomous vehicles to
GEICO's auto insurance business which is
built around understanding and
underwriting human drivers? Wouldn't
what we call auto insurance today just
become product liability for autonomous
vehicles and autonomous software
companies?
Well, a Jeep. Yeah, there's no question
that uh insurance for automobiles is
going to change dramatically once
self-driving cars become a reality. Uh
the big change that we will see is what
you
identified. Most of the insurance that
is sold and bought revolves around
operator errors and how often they
happen, how severe they are and
therefore what premium we ought to
charge. To the extent these new
self-driving cars are most safe and are
involved in fewer accidents,
uh that insurance will be less required.
Instead, it'll be substituted by as you
mentioned product liability.
So we at Geico and elsewhere are
certainly trying to get ready for that
switch where we move from providing
insurance for operator errors and be
more ready to provide protection for
product errors and errors and omissions
in the construction of these
automobiles.
Yeah, we
expect we expect change in all our
businesses and uh it's good thing we
didn't and Charlie pushed me into it.
But uh if I'd settled for being in New
England textiles, you know, and even
though it worked well
for 70 years or so prior there too, you
know, it the world changes and
and if the game didn't change at all
really wouldn't be very interesting, you
know, it uh uh if every time
you if you ever every time you you know
swung at a baseball, you had a home run
the game wouldn't be interesting if
every time you hit a golf a golf ball
you had a hole in one wouldn't be
interesting. So
it the fact that there will
be things you have to think about all
the time as you go along and you'll make
mistakes and all that that's really part
of the fun. I mean that your your your
brain would turn to mush if you didn't
have a few problems now then. So,
um I I
uh you know, auto insurance will change,
although it's remarkable how little it
has
changed, but it's only been around
since, you know, a relatively small
time. And who knows what we're doing to
move in transportation a 100 years from
now. You go back a couple hundred years
ago, who could have predicted the United
States would look like what it does and
people would move like they do and
people would enjoy themselves like they
do. And I mean, it's just it it it's
it's an it's a dynamic world. And the
biggest thing we have to worry about,
unfortunately, is that that uh we've
learned how to destroy the world too and
in in in
in recent years. And so we've got this
wonderful world which now
we we know that there are eight
countries that and probably a ninth
coming on that can destroy and and uh uh
and we don't have what I would consider
the necessarily the perfect people
leading each of one of the nine or or
some of the nine countries. And
uh you
know when
Einstein came up with the equals MC²
back
in
1905 he
uh he didn't dream of the fact I mean
that energy could really be converted or
uh mass could be converted into energy
and the way that we change the world.
When I was born in 1930, they had known
about the law of physics that that
Einstein had come up with
uh 25 years earlier. Nobody to my
knowledge had thought what can this do
to change
uh warfare in the future. And literally
uh it just wasn't thought. Einstein
didn't think about it at at that point.
And uh and then
in
1939 Roosevelt got a
letter
around month
before Germany moved into Poland got
around August 1st. It's the most famous
letter in history from from Leo Zard.
Leo Zard couldn't get his letter in
front of Roosevelt because who ever
heard of Leo Zard? it, but he got
Einstein to sign it. And
uh Roosevelt probably understood about
as much about physics as I do. So he he
didn't understand it, but he understood
that Einstein signed it. So he calls
in General Rover, may not have been
general then, and said, "We should do
something about this." And and all we
did was learn how
to destroy the world. And uh we needed
to do it. and and
uh Germany had Heisenberg and he looked
like he was he was ahead of us and uh
uh we can't put that genie back in the
bottle and it's the world does change
and we've got all these one we've got
wonderful things but u but we also
have you
We have a guy in North Korea. If
you if we criticize his haircut, him,
you know, who knows what he might decide
to do
with what does North Korea
need
uh nuclear weapons for? I mean, it
uh can that be a good thing in the
world? But they're not going to go away.
So, it's
a it's a world of change.
And we are enjoying incredible change
that's contributed everybody in this
room living so much better than people
were living a couple hundred years
ago. But we haven't been able
to to avoid we haven't changed human
beings very much so far. We've we've
certainly changed weapons of mass
destruction and and uh but we haven't
made much progress with the human race
and and uh we'll see what happens with
that.
But in the meantime, we'll see changes
in auto insurance too and cars and and
uh that that will be be more in it be
easier for us to deal with it than it
was when we had to deal with the
problems of of turning
out textiles in New England. And uh you
know, you deal with the world as it
develops. And like I say, everybody here
is living in the luckiest period. But
but
but you know, enjoy your luck and uh and
uh and you still try to figure out the
answers to what's going to happen. Yeah.
In all insurance as we go along and
we've we've done pretty well actually
adapting to the answers. There's a few
big problems in insurance and uh I don't
know how the insurance industry adapts
to them particularly, but but that makes
the game
interesting. You really don't you
wouldn't want to go out and play golf if
you know you're going to hit the ball in
the hole on every hole. I'd just like to
add we talked about the shift
to product liability and to protection
for accidents that take place because of
a error in terms of how the product was
designed or supplied. Uh the only thing
I want to add is in addition to the that
shift I think what we'll see is a major
shift where the number of accidents that
take place and need to be provided for
will drop dramatically because of
automatic driving. But on the other
hand, the cost per repair, every time
there's an accident, the cost of
repairing and bringing everything back
to where it used to be would go up very
significantly because of the amount of
technology that's going into the uh into
the car. How those two variables
interact with each other in terms of the
total cost of providing the insurance, I
think, is still an open issue.
I'll give you two interesting figures to
ponder.
When I walked
into a Geico's office in
1950,
the average price of a
policy was around 40 bucks a year.
Uh it varies all over the lot depending
on location, everything, but but uh
uh you know, it's pretty easy to get up
to $2,000 and depending on how urban
your areas are and uh everything can get
considerably higher. During that same
time, the number of people killed in
auto accidents
uh have fallen
from roughly six per 100 million miles
driven a little over one. So the cars
become incredibly
safer
and it costs 50 times as much down or
thereabouts to buy insurance policy.
So, uh, when people talk about the
developments
in car driving and all that sort of
thing, it it's a lot easier sometimes. I
mean, the the Buck Rogers aspect of it.
People look at, but they don't actually
think of what really happens to the math
of the business. The insurance auto
insurance industry has been a huge
growth industry.
And for that matter,
uh, homeowners insurance prices in
Nebraska have doubled in the last 10
years, adjusted for general
inflation. and
uh convective storms, you know, have
just gone on a tear and it's still
unprofitable to write a home b
homeowners insurance in Nebraska after
doubling the price in the last 10 years.
So, it's very hard to
predict what these big changes mean, and
you just got to keep thinking all the
time. But you don't want to read some
research report that says the world's
coming to an end or the world's going to
be wonderful because of this or that
because there's about 50 other
developments going on at the same time
that you
uh that you need to think about that uh
and that you needed to keep observing as
you go along. You don't re you never
reach an answer in this business. You
reach a point of action that you take.
But but but
uh we try to get into as high
probability things as we think we can do
and play the game in the same way. But
but but it will be different than you
think. And and you should wake up every
morning and think about that too if
you're if you're in the business of of
managing businesses.
Hey Warren, as we approach the break, uh
would you like to address the operating
earnings? Oh, yeah. Yeah, let's put up
the uh we released our 10 Q this morning
and
um uh we always try to do it on a
Saturday so nobody gets a jump on other
people. And we we just have three simple
um charts. you'll see that
uh our insurance underwriting income was
down dramatically for the first quarter
and last year was as good a year as
you'll see in insurance that uh uh and
it's always unpredictable in insurance
but everything broke our way
uh or the insurance industry's way last
year. Prices are down this year. Risks
are up this year. So you don't have to
be a genius to figure out what the
answer is on that. So uh
but we have we do have unusual
advantages in the insurance
business.
Uh that can't really be replicated by
our competition. That doesn't mean they
aren't trying to get advantages. We
don't have that. But we'll try to
replicate anything that seems better. In
fact, we'll try and top it. But
we I wouldn't talk about our insurance
business as much as I do it unless I
really thought we had some really
permanent advantages in a very very
large industry. We just announced within
the last 24 hours that we and Zurich and
Shub
have arranged a joint operation to be
the
uh writer of of really
large sums that that very few people can
do. And of course, we got to write them
at the right price in terms of
liability, but but we can do that sort
of thing without blinking. and anybody
that wants to do it wants to get us in
it. I mean it uh so
anyway our investment income uh did not
change that much because we have a float
that grows a little bit which gives us
more money for investment and then we
have retained
earnings which grow. So we would
expect in any year to have like 40
billion or more that that we'll build up
investments unless we find things
uh to do with it. So the investment
income rates on treasuries are less than
they were or short-term bills I should
say are are less than they were before.
So you had that negative effect pulling
it down but not that much and we had
more money. So we came up with a little
more earn in the way of earnings. The
railroad is earning a little more than
than last year, but it's not earning
what it it it should be earning at the
present time. And but that that's
solvable and uh and and is getting
getting solved. Uh and it's still an
incredible asset for Bergkshire. The
energy company last year was having
particular problems and those are absent
this year. So those earnings are up and
uh and then uh among our range of
general businesses they were pretty much
a push and I think I think you did a
little calculation the other day on how
many were up and how many were down did
great. Yeah. Of our uh 49 that we
measure closely uh 20 21 were up and 28
were down. So you can tell it was really
a a mixed quarter when you go go across
uh the operating the non- insurance
operating
businesses. Yeah. The next slide
uh I'm getting a five minute warning
here. The uh we'll throw the long ball
now. the uh uh shows our financial
condition which continues
to hold a lot more
in cash treasury billables than I would
like but I but that's simply a
question of when opportunities occur and
and if you get real opportunities every
five or six years you're you know you
have to be patient. Charlie always
pointed out that we made most of our
money out of about eight or nine ideas
over 50 years and u and we talked about
it every day and we read every report
and we did everything else. But but if
you think you can get an idea a day from
listening to your friend book or
or doing a lot of reading of the of the
financial information published or uh
forget it because every now and then you
get extraordinary
opportunities and most of the
time you don't have much of an edge. Uh
so uh we also have on that thing our
float which continues to build. I don't
think
any there's no company that
has property casualty company that has
our fold is their jeep and yeah clearly
we are heads and shoulders above anyone
else.
Yeah, it uh so that is money that as
long as we're writing it and
underwriting profit is absolutely free
money. But um
and and we would expect that over a 50
or 100year period that that we would be
able to say the same thing. But uh there
will be there will be years when you
have
a very bad underwriting record and and
it'll lead into the float earnings. But
so far in the last 20 years, I think
uh we've only had what one underwriting
loss of any. Yeah, I think if you look
at the entire range including life
insurance, our cost of float is 2.2
negative. That means we've got the float
plus somebody's given us 2.2% of that of
cash to Yeah, it's like running a
running a bank where people leave their
money with you and and you pay a minus
2.2%. And you don't have any check
clearing or anything else to do and it's
included in that. So it it but we run
our business actually with a different
mindset than than than any other PC
company I think probably in the world.
and and
and I wouldn't be talking about it if I
thought they could duplicate it. And
then
uh the
final final pages on share repurchases
and clearly we haven't made any we have
not made share repurchases so far this
year and
uh share repurchases if if Bergkshire
buys Berkshire shares and repurchases
we've now pay more than you will pay if
you buy Bergkshire shares. I don't think
people generally know that, but but
there is a a tax that was introduced
here or so ago. Uh where we
pay 1% and that not only hurts us
uh because we pay more for it than you
do to pay. It's a better deal for you
than for us. Uh but it actually hurts
some of our investy companies quite
substantially. And you know, Tim Cook
has done a wonderful job. I mean, really
wonderful job
running Apple,
but he spent a hundred billion dollars
roughly in a year repurchasing shares
and there's a 1% charge attached to that
now. So that that's a billion dollars a
year that he pays when he buys Apple
stock in, which we like compared to what
you pay. and and that doesn't sound like
much, but well, a billion dollars sounds
like a lot still in order, but uh there
are people that want to increase that
that particular rate dramatically and
and uh and you you won't read about it
or anything like that, but it does make
it slightly less attractive
uh than than it was before. And we will
only buy in our shares if we think that
they
are almost certainly underpriced as
valued very conservatively. And and uh
uh we get that opportunity occasionally,
but the higher that charge goes that the
federal government charges us for doing
it, the less we will be able to do over
purchases.
So on that happy note, we will rejoin uh
at 1:00 and uh uh we will I'm
sorry correct that correct that to 11:00
and then we will yeah 11:00 and then
we'll continue till 1:00 and then in the
meantime enjoy yourself and uh uh and I
think all our stores are still open. So,
bring the cash
register here. Sure, I'll help you here.
Okay, everyone.
Okay, we're ready to go. And
uh I'm going to lead
off by
uh actually recommending a
movie. I know that's why you came, but
uh I would recommend to all of you
that
u you go to Amazon Prime. I've got no
financial interest in this, but you go
to Amazon
Prime and click on a a
documentary called Becoming Katherine
Graham. It's an incredible story
uh from 50 or so years
ago
and to some extent
I had the good luck to
be kind of a
u a viewer
of some some American history that I I
think is fascinating.
So if if if you feel that uh that I
misled you, you can write me a note and
I promise to report how many how many
readers didn't agree with but clear to
becoming Kather Graham and you'll see a
story of a a remarkable story of
American
history and there are a good many
portions in
there that uh I who lived through that
period
didn't know about uh at the time and uh
I think I don't think really every
American citizen ought to watch it. So
with that but
uh I hope you uh all spend some more
money out there and
our friendly shops and we will go
to station 9.
Uh, hi Warren. My name is Robert and I'm
a shareholder from uh, Toronto, Canada.
Uh, so Warren uh, three years ago
Charlie Rose uh, asked you a question to
the effect of what you wanted to be
remembered for and your reply was he was
a teacher. So in that spirit, u Greg,
I'm curious to hear maybe a story of
where you learned something very, you
know, profound from Warren. I'm sure
you've learned many things, but if
there's a story that kind of comes up in
your mind, we'd love to hear it. And
vice versa, if we have the time, Warren,
what's something that you maybe learned
from Greg? Thank you. Yeah, I will turn
this over to Greg in just one second.
But now, the main thing I'd like to be
known for is old age.
Well, Ward is uh obviously a remarkable
teacher and and I benefit from that
every day and and and as I've already
touched on for many years, um I'm
fortunate that if I had to uh be
remembered as something right now,
obviously I'd uh want to
be uh remembered as a great father,
but equally a coach.
Uh, and I and that goes to family,
friends, and just being involved with uh
the kids I coach in hockey or baseball
or whatever it may be. I think we've got
a a great opportunity to give back to
them at uh a very young age. So, uh
obviously those would be um how I'd want
to be remembered and hopefully that'll
be uh uh many many years from now. But
uh but and I I love thinking of Warren
truly as a teacher and and and he's in
every day get the opportunity to
continue to learn. Warren and I his
dialogue is strong every week and we're
always talking around opportunities in
Berkshire or things that are going on
globally or in the US and each one's uh
truly a truly a learning moment. Um I
I'll maybe go back to the very first
meeting with Warren uh and because it
still stands out in my mind. Obviously
it was incredible opportunity. We Warren
was um buying or uh acquiring Mid-Americ
Energy Holdings Company at that time or
or or thinking about it and we had the I
had the opportunity uh with my partners
to go over there on a a Saturday morning
and we're discussing the the business
and Warren had the financial statements
in front of them and
uh like anybody I I was sort of
expecting a a few questions on how the
business was performing or a variety of
things, but Warren locked in immediately
to what was on the balance sheet and the
fact we had some derivative contracts,
the weapons of mass destruction.
um and associated with the utility
business. We do have them because they
they use them to match certain positions
and they they're never matched
perfectly, but you do have them and
we're required in the regulated
business. But I I just remember Warren
going to it immediately and asking the
composition of it and what was the
underlying risk in it and wanting to
thoroughly under understand and it
wasn't that big of a position but it was
absolutely one of the risks he was
concerned uh about as he was acquiring
uh Mid-Americ and obviously in light of
Enron and everything that gone on it was
a very pertinent question and then the
followup to that was then there's a an
energy crisis in the US uh around
electricity and natural gas and a
variety of folks were were making
significant sums of money. This is a
year 18 months later and Warren's
follow-up question couple years later to
me was and I knew it was more just
checking or testing. So how much money
are we making during this energy crisis?
Are we making a lot? do you know do we
are are are are the speculative
positions in place and are we making it?
The answer was we're really not making
any more today than we would have been
uh 6 months ago because all those
derivatives were truly to support our
business and weren't speculative. So
just just that focus on understanding
the business of what he was acquiring,
understanding the risks around it uh
still stand out in my mind. Warren?
Yeah, it's
it's one thing we've really never talked
about here, but I spend more time
looking at balance sheets than I do
income statements. And uh uh Wall Street
really doesn't pay much
attention to balance sheets, but I I
like to look at balance sheets
over an 8 or 10 year period before I
even look at the income account because
there are certain things it's harder to
hide or play games with on the balance
sheet than than you can with the income
statement. And
uh I mean neither one gives you the
total answer on anything, but but you
you still ought to you ought to
understand what the figures
are are saying and what they don't say
and what they can't say and what the
management would like them to say that
the auditors wouldn't like them to say.
And I mean there's just a lot to be
learned and and you do learn more you
learn more from
uh from balance sheets in my view than
most people give them credit for uh in
in terms of
uh I really
haven't I'm not worried about being
remembered
about people people don't remember well
they don't remember enough about
Katherryn Graham example in in terms of
this story that shaped America in many
ways certainly had just all kinds of
impact and I I think I mean history
is so
fascinating and
uh Charlie was
probably the best person you could
imagine and what he learned. Charlie was
never satisfied with
uh just superficial things about any
subject. He really wanted to understand
it and he always would tell me that you
know don't take a position on anything
and until you can describe the arguments
against it better than the person who is
arguing with you that you should be able
to argue their case better than they
can. uh he was he was a remarkable
uh teacher and uh but so and so were
those other fellows I mentioned. Uh
uh I've had a and of course my dad was
an incredible teacher.
So you make the most
of the people you meet that are going to
make you a better person and probably
forget about the rest to quite an
extent. Okay, let's move on to number
Well, Becky, you're next.
This question comes from David Rubin, a
shareholder from Scottsdale,
Arizona. Uh it's a question for Greg.
We've heard over the decades and are
familiar with Warren and Charlie's
investment thesis and their circle of
competence. During the first 10 years
after taking over as CEO, Greg will be
tasked with allocating more capital
during that time than Bergkshire has had
to allocate in its history. Given this,
I'd like to hear from Greg about his
views on capital allocation,
particularly into new businesses.
Sure. So um this bar is not too high. Uh
no it's uh
but very fortunate when you think of
Berkshire again and we've we've talked
about this where we start from and I
I'll I'll clearly touch on the uh
investment and the related investment
allocation but we start from a great
great place where we've got a a great
culture within the business.
We have values that we as a management
team and and and really um as defined by
Warren and and those Charlie and and
everybody associated with the business,
we've got great values that really set
Birkshop Birkshire up well for the for
the future. And obviously as we deploy
capital
uh and allocate capital it's critical to
Berkshire as we go forward and equally
it's around uh managing risk but when I
think of our our our values or our
couple that are absolutely
uh critical uh one will maintain the
reputation of of Berkshire and and that
of our our company and And I view that
in investing or how we operate things uh
across each of our businesses. That will
always be a priority and something that
will will ensure is in the forefront of
our minds. I think equally as we then
look at our our various our back to
Warren's balance sheet comment, we will
have a fortress of a balance sheet and
we want to I thought Sue Decker, our
lead director, said it well yesterday.
We've got a we've got a significant set
of cash right now, but it it's an
enormous asset to have that and that
will continue to be a philosophy. Yes.
When we can deploy it, uh we'll deploy
it well and I'll come to that. But
equally we do recognize it as a
strategic asset and it allows us to
weather the difficult times and and at
the same and and and not be dependent on
anybody. So again that will be an uh an
investment philosophy. We will remain
Berkshire and we will never be dependent
on a bank or some other party for
Bergkshire to be uh successful.
I would thank
you. I would then move to um to touch on
allocation of capital be absolutely
critical but with that comes uh
management of risk and and understanding
risk and that falls upon uh all our
managers insurance non- insurance but
we'll bring that across
Berkshire and then the other value I
would touch on but that really relates
to where I'm going is ultimately we have
a great set of operating cups companies
that do produce significant cash flows.
Be it in the insurance companies
creating float or our various non-
insurance companies producing
significant cash flows on a on an annual
basis. We intend to continue to ensure
that's a strength of Berkshire as we go
forward. It's absolutely critical to our
to our long-term success. Now, with
those cash flows and with the float and
then equally as touched on, we have
significant resources already on our
balance sheet. We'll really continue to
move forward with a very similar
philosophy. It's an identical philosophy
to what we've had uh currently and and
and for the past 60 years.
We'll start by looking at those
opportunities
uh within our business and by that I
mean within our insurance non-insurance
businesses are they are they properly
capitalized and have the opportunity to
manage their business and that uh that
will continue to exist. They'll operate
in an autonomous way but in the end
Bergkshire still manages the capital
that will go into that those businesses
or what potentially will come out of
those uh
businesses. Equally the next opportunity
is to acquire businesses in their
totality or
100%.
And there are great times when we can do
that. Warren touched on. We had one that
was interesting in the last quarter, the
10 billion dollar acquisition. But
again, the value relative to the risk
have to be right. And if it's right, we
want to own it. If it's not the time,
there'll be another time to own assets
like that. And then there's the
opportunity to own pieces of uh of
companies through the equity. But as
Warren's always highlighted and again
this will be our approach to to how we
think around those
companies though we we own a piece of a
company. We own a a piece of that uh
cash flow. We own a piece of their
balance sheet. It's not just a a share
certificate. And as we approach that and
really we'll approach it with the
thought that we're going to own this
company for the long term. Um it's again
understanding what be it the 100%
company or the 1% company you do we
thoroughly understand and thoroughly do
we have a strong view of what those
economic prospects of those companies
will look like and Warren said it
earlier 5 years from now 10 years from
now 20 years from now if if we don't
have a view of that
um we won't be investing be it 100% % or
2% of a company through equities. We
have to thoroughly understand what those
prospects look like and associated with
understanding those prospects. We need
to understand the underlying risk of the
businesses. And it's it's really the
investment
philosophy and and and how we how Warren
and and the team have allocated capital
for the p past 60 years. you know,
really the the it it will not change and
it's it's it's the approach we'll take
as we go forward. warm. Yeah. I And I
don't want to go on too long on this,
but but Sorry, I covered it. No, no, no.
But this is this is important because
the
uh you know it's it's very obvious
um that the country for example needs
uh an
incredible improvement rethinking
redirection even to some extent
uh in the grid. I mean, we we've out
outgrown
uh what would be the model that America
should
have. And in a sense, it's a problem.
something akin to
the interstate highway system where you
needed
the power of the government really to
get things done because it doesn't work
so well when you get 48 or 50
jurisdictions that each has their own
way of thinking about things. And of
course in World War II, we called in
people at a dollar an hour. And we knew
we had to turn out ships like crazy. And
we knew that we had to convert Ford
Motor from from being a car manufacturer
into an aircraft manufacturer in a
matter of days, not weeks, not months.
So you need the there are
certain really major
investment situations
where we have capital like nobody else
has in the private system. We have
particular
knowhow
in in in in the whole generation
uh and and transmission
uh
arena. uh the country is going to need
it. Uh but we have to figure out a way
uh that makes sense from the standpoint
of the government, sense from the
standpoint of the public and from the
standpoint of Birkshire. And we haven't
figured that out yet. I don't know
whether Greg wants to even explain a few
of the major problems, but but that is
an that is a clear and
present use of hundreds of billions of
dollars
and you know, you have people that set
up funds and so you know, they're get
they're getting paid for just assembling
stuff, but it it it's it that's not the
way to handle it. The way the way to
handle it is to have some kind of a a
government private industry cooperation
similar to what you do in in a war. And
uh and I don't think when they were
doing the highway system, I don't think
that the government set up its own guys
that were going to pour a hole of cement
or anything like that, but they you you
needed a cooperation and and and we're
at that point, I think, and
uh in in terms of energy, but uh I don't
think I don't think we've made any
progress particularly though. Tell us
more about that. Yeah. And I think these
are very unique in that not unique in
that it's sort of reflective of where
we're at. There will be very significant
investment opportunities across a
variety of industries as Warren touched
on in the electric in the electric
industry or the energy space. We
obviously know that well with our with
our existing business and the capital
required to meet the long-term needs of
of of what's um uh currently uh
projected as demand is enormous and and
we as Bergkshire will be in a good
position to um help address those needs.
But the the model around it and the
risks that need to be addressed to
deploy that type of capital will be will
be different than they are today.
Warren's point. Yeah. The the muscle of
the federal government will be needed.
But the test of whether you can have 48
or 50 depending on the nature of things,
jurisdictions that are
cooperating to do something that has
opposition will have opposition in every
single state. If they'd taken a vote on
during World War II or if they' taken a
vote on the, you know, the interstate
highway system, it had it it would have
been slowed down to an incredible
degree. I so the question is how to use
these strengths that this country has to
actually turn it in to what it should be
capable of while still preserving you
know a republic with
48 and connected and couple unconnected
states and and it it is it'll be
interesting to see what happens but we
do have capital and we actually have
some knowledge
that that uh very few very few places
have. I mean, we we we know what the
game's about, but
uh putting together that energy
uh with knowledge and with capital and
everything is it's just not easy. uh and
it should be something that we're
capable of in the country, but but the
country was not designed for having in a
certain way. It was not designed for
having 48 different jurisdictions that
could mess up anything that you were
attempting to do. And during wartime,
it's one thing to get agreement, but
during during peace time, it's some it's
it's a it's a different problem that's
going to be one for the next generation.
But I'm just it's it's important.
Okay. Station
10. Um good morning Mr. Buffett and Mr.
Abel. I'm Darcus Tang. I'm 14 years old.
My father U Tang MGRTCO brought me here
for two consecutive years. And I promise
I will come back um every year since I
queue up at 2 in the morning every
meeting you
hold. My dad owned um BRKA shares and he
said I need to work hard to earn my
piece of BRKB. We are both um are from
China, Hong Kong and I would like to ask
what's the essential element for a
global teenager like me if we want to be
part of Berkshire like Mr. Greg Apple
like what piece of knowledge I should
learn. So you hire me in the future.
Well, if you're talking about the
future, you better talk to Greg. So
we'll let Greg answer that.
Uh my final words finally Mr. Buffett.
Uh I learned a lot from this meeting and
of course I will come uh here every year
and I wish you can attend as many as
possible as you and Mr. Char Charlie Mer
the most respectful people have inspired
me and my father a lot. I wish you happy
and healthy and maybe one day in the
future we can make the world more
prosperous all together like you said.
Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
Yes. Uh well I think uh your dad your
dad said it best. um he highlighted that
to become part of uh uh Berkshire to own
some Bergkshire shares you're going to
have to work hard and I think uh hard
work takes all of us a long ways in life
and and I would never diminish that you
know there's a lot of things that matter
in life but if you start with a great uh
work ethic and have that attitude that
you're you want to contribute you're
going to go a long ways in life and and
that'll and and you'll you'll find great
enjoyment because as Warren said, you'll
then if you work hard, you're going to
find the things you love in life and
it'll lead to that. And uh we we truly
uh look forward to the day you're part
of Berkshire. Thank
you.
Yeah. Keep keep a lot of curiosity and
read a lot as Charlie would say. Okay,
Becky.
Uh, this question comes from Matthew
Teisac in Leighton, Utah. He said,
"Please discuss your strategy on how to
protect our company from future
liabilities due to wildfires blamed on
our electric utility companies out
west."
Well, that's a very good question and uh
uh
we've we we made some mistakes in the
past when we bought Pacific Corp.
In 200 what five U yes Warner Scott and
and David Sol and myself three guys who
were capitalists at heart and had had uh
but we're dealing with our own money but
we uh we made a mistake by not carving
it up into the seven states that we were
buying. And uh it came it came with an
aggregation
uh where it wasn't state by state and we
we kept the same the same structure and
that was a that was a big mistake.
Uh there
are
well every part of the country is going
to need
electricity and there are going to be
places where where public electric or
privately held electric utilities would
be very foolish to operate and how that
gets resolved in a democracy we will
find out but uh uh those are the facts
as they stand now I would say Greg.
Yeah, the the reality the risk around
the wildfires i.e. that do the wildfires
occur are they're not going away and and
we know that and the risk probably goes
up each year. So, but what we can do to
reduce the risk of it impacting our
system and our underlying assets and the
unfortunately the liabilities that come
with such events. We can change that and
manage that. We can't eliminate the
risk, but we can reduce it. And that's
where we've got uh our teams in the in
the west, but we really are approaching
it across all our energy infrastructure
because the the reality is the wildfires
have now occurred in uh Texas. They've
had a variety of them throughout the US
and and we're all very focused on how we
manage that risk. How we manage it is we
start by addressing the actual assets,
how we're maintaining them um and where
we invest them, invest into them. So we
try to make sure that they're either not
causing the fire or potentially even
hardening the system as to what can they
withstand. So it's very much uh we start
with the operational folk uh focus. We
then take it even further, and this is
something Warren and I've discussed many
times, is that the utilities started to
recognize when we have these unusual
weather events, and Warren touched on
what's been happening in Nebraska with
storms, but they're equally occurring uh
or or significant events occurring uh
west. But when we have those, we've
gotten very very good at saying, okay,
we have to manage the system
differently. will potentially deenergize
because there's likely to be an event.
But the one thing we hadn't tackled, and
this is very relevant to the one
significant event we had back in 2020 in
Pacific Corp, is we didn't deenergize
the system as the fire was approaching.
Uh because our our employees and the
whole management team have been all
their lives trained to keep the lights
on and the last thing they want to do is
turn those lights off and and have a
system deenergized.
And after those events and as we
um really looked at how we're going to
move forward in in managing the the
assets and reducing that risk, we we
have clearly recognized as as a team
that we have to deenergize those assets.
So now as we get fires encroaching at a
certain uh number of miles, we
deenergize cuz we do not want to
contribute to the fire nor obviously
harm any of our consumers or contribute
unfortunately if there's a death. And
and that's really where we had to take
our team that we're managing a different
risk now. It's not around keeping the
lights on. It's around protecting the
general public and ensuring the fire
does not spread further. So, we've gone
as far as that
and I would I'll stand corrected on this
one, but we're probably the one uh
utility or across our utilities that
does that today and we strongly believe
that. Becky, can I just follow up on
that? Yeah. Doesn't that open you up to
other risk if you shut down your system,
a hospital gets shut down, somebody
dies? we're we we've uh you know
fortunately that's something that we do
deal with a lot because we have power
outages that occur by accident. So when
we look at critical infrastructure
because it's excellent point and we're
constantly re-evaluating it and we do
receive a lot of feedback from our
customer groups as to how do we manage
that? But that is something we deal with
on a a more routine basis than we'd ever
like. The lights go out. They have to
make sure the hospitals stay on
emergency units can respond and all
that. Uh but there is risk there. So
then we spend a lot more time educating
the consumers and our consumer groups,
our customers. Okay, this is what will
happen. We need to understand your
unusual situations and how can we best
tackle that again so we just don't take
on another liability. So there's a lot
around uh
deenergization. And then just to take it
to the last step and Warren's touched on
that just in general on energy policy,
we have to work with our states and our
regulators to
ensure this was never risk we took on or
or envisioned when we were investing in
utilities. Nor would any of the
investors who've invested in other
energy companies. you earn a you you
earn a very set return for taking on a
very set defined risk associated with
that asset and this has gone well beyond
that. We don't earn the type of returns
nor can you earn a large enough return
to take on these risks. So it's it's not
just about solving the return side. We
really have to solve the risk side which
means we work with our regulators. We're
working with our state legislators to
get to the right answer. And that's
really just that'll be an ongoing
process. There are not silver bullets
out there, but every day our teams
across utilities are working hard to
reduce that risk, recognizing the
fundamental risk of the wildfires is not
going away. Yeah. But there's some
problem. Yeah. There's some there's some
problems that can't be solved and we we
shouldn't be in the business of taking
your money, investors money and and and
tackling things that we don't know the
solution for. And um
uh and you can present the arguments,
but it's a political decision when you
are dealing with states or the federal
government. And uh uh if you're in
something where you're going to lose,
the big thing to do is quit and you you
present your case as well as you can and
everything else, but
uh if you don't hold the pen in the end,
uh you know, we don't have any business
taking your money and uh doing dumb
things with us and and we can do our
best to explain what the intelligent
things are, but
uh it's your money. And uh uh so it's
it's very hard to tell how to to handle
the questions
of politically determined
decisions
that are going to go
to court in many cases. But you know
that that it just
doesn't it doesn't make sense. We we
know what we think a sensible system
would be, but and we ought to explain
what what what we think it is and and uh
uh you know do the best to get our
position because it's pro social to have
the right solution to have it.
But uh the right solution for example in
the interstate wasn't to let 48 states
each decide on their own way of doing it
and award contractors the jobs based you
know there's just there's some problems
that can't that can't be solved and we
are not in the business of trying to
solve insolvable problems. Yeah. I'd
even go for but then the problem you
have of course is that the people that
work for you that's it's their job. So
they they
they
they want to have reasons to keep going
and uh that's a that's a it's those are
tough choices if you're managing but
that's what's that's why they have
managers.
And Warren, I was just going to add
because you touched on something really
important there that um effectively is
for example with the utilities and the
wildfires.
Um we c we can't just become the insurer
of last resort and that we're going to
cover any cost and all costs
irrespective of what
occurred. And that's a little bit of the
situation we're in right now with our
largest uh challenge, a 2020 wildfire
where there were one of four fi there
were four fires occurring at a a
challenging time. One we've always
asserted was a lightning strike that was
not inside our service territory. the
fire burnt into our service territory
and we became responsible for that fire
effectively through the courts and we've
continue to hold firm that we're not
responsible for that
um rightfully I mean we didn't
contribute to it uh and we didn't
initiate it nor did we feel we ever
contributed to it um but it's getting uh
again if you look at the risk that's
there we have to manage through things
like that we'll get through that
litigation. We're happy to report, for
example, on that one after 5 years, the
Oregon Forestry Department has come out
and said the the the fires the other
fires we did have that we were able to
manage and extinguish did not contribute
to that fire. And that fourth fire is
the largest fire of the four. It can
it's 60% of the claims. We're 5 years
into effectively getting that
information into the courts. Now, that
will outline our legal strategy
obviously going forward, but it's things
we're dealing with, but we continue to
learn from this as a as utility
industry. So, we're in very much each of
the legislators, as I said, making sure
we get clear definition where liability
falls, what can the economic damages be,
but most importantly, what can the
non-economic damages be? And again with
the thought we can't be the insurer of
last resort. We just can't be
responsible for everything that happens
in in a state. Yeah.
If we want to do it with our own money,
we we can do it, but we're not going to
we're not going to do things with your
money that we think are stupid. I mean,
you ought to get rid of us if if if if
we do it. And uh it's easy to it's
easier to do stupid things with other
people's money than it is with your own
money. That's one of the problems
government has just generally. We don't
want to bring it to private enterprise.
But it is important that the United
States have an
intelligent energy policy just as it was
important during World War II that we
learned how to make ships instead of
cars extremely fast. And we figured out
the answer. We combined private
enterprise with with with
with the power of the of of of
government. And
uh but what how feasible that is in a in
a democracy and you know it it was
clearly obvious during World War needed
to be done and we did it. But it's not
so clear when when uh you get
330 million people all arguing their own
self-interest and and of course deciding
what'll happen and and and having the
people often who are making the
decisions reacting as they did 20 years
earlier. uh you know when they don't
really bear the responsibility for the
decision. But u anyway that's management
and um we'll do our
best station 11.
Hello my name is Alitia Burk and I'm
from Poland but I currently live in
Chicago. This question is on behalf of
an inspiring man that I know Wid Ahmed
who's here with us today. Mr. Buffett.
Nearly 74 years ago, on a cold Saturday
in January 1951, you traveled 8 hours by
train from New York to Washington. You
won all the way on nothing but hope that
some might teach you more about the
insurance industry. Arriving at Geico's
office to find the doors locked, you
persisted until a janitor let you
inside. You credit that meeting with
Lori Davidson for the insurance float
that was the rocket fuel behind
Berkshire's success. In 2011, when I was
15, I wrote you with similar
determination asking to meet. You kindly
wrote back saying you had only 3,000
days left and more pressing priorities.
Well, Mr. Buffett, it's now been 5,000
days since you
replied. And so inspired by your
persistence in 1951 and the tenacity of
Mrs. B, I humbly renew her my request
for just a quarter of the time Davey
gave you a single hour in your office.
Oh well, you may wonder why must it be
you? You have often shared an anecdote
about Polish Jew who survived Ashvitz
who said to you once, Warren, I'm very
slow to make friends because when I look
at someone I ask myself would they hide
me? You said that the number of people
would hide you was the best test of life
well lived. Well, I believe that the at
this meeting you have four you don't
have 40,000 trail holders, but you have
40,000 people who would hide you. You
are testament to a life extraordinarily
well-lived yet even you have not fully
witnessed this transformative power of a
I'll let you write I'll I'll let you
write my biography but I I think I've
got the point of your question.
So respectfully I ask again Mr. Buffett
before father time wins will you please
grant will lead Ahmed an hour of your
time or any time you can dedicate. Thank
you so much for your time. Thank you.
And and I will say this I grant an hour
to everybody of the 40,000 here. Well
will we'll have an
interesting I'll have an interesting
time the rest of my life. But I will I
will I'll give you one tip. Uh I found
that when I was very
young and
uh I would I would drive around to
various companies all over the country
and
uh because I
was very young and these were companies
were offbeat and they didn't have
investor relations departments then
almost every CEO would see me cuz they
figured I'd never they'd never see me
again. And uh uh and they didn't they
weren't getting calls like that. And I
would ask them two questions. I I would
I would explain to them. It's not a bad
idea. Incidentally,
uh if you're going to walk into
somebody's office and you say you want
10 minutes of their
time, take a
u hourglass and stick it on the on the
desk of the person you're talking to and
turn it up so it's going to go for 10
minutes and you say you're going to
you're going to leave in 10 minutes
unless they ask you to stay. And uh uh
that sets the terms. But then once you
have that, you if if they're in the coal
business, we'll say, which happened to
be one that I was interested in 70 years
ago or so, uh you just ask them one
question that if they were to be stuck
on a desert island and they had
to own only one of their competitors
stock during the 10 years they were
going to be on that island, which one
would it be, and
Why? And then after they give you that
answer, you said the same thing. You
were in the short
uh your net worth while you were on the
island. Which would it be? And why?
Because every manager likes to talk
about their competitors. They're they're
they're like went to school kids, you
know, when when they get into talking
about their competitors.
I probably learned more about various
industries by just making sure that they
didn't think I'd stay too long and that
in the meantime they would have the
floor and talk about their competitors.
I kept my own mouth shut in those days.
Uh that's that's a lesson I've lost
somewhere along the line. But the uh
uh you're you're not you're you
essentially they've outsourced
uh or I shouldn't say outsourced, but
they've they've departmentalized
investor relations of all companies of
size frankly now. So, you've got, you
know, 3,000 companies or whatever they
have and they all have departments and
each one of them has an investor
relations department practically and
their job is to say this is the best
thing you can do today is buy our stock.
Well, that the whole concept is total
idiocy. Uh but it's a big business and
it gets bigger and the investor
relations department gets bigger and and
uh you know and and it uh it's what we
have now but do a little of your own
work your own way but uh Bergkshire
Hathaway has got plenty of material out
there for you to read and when you get
through reading it all you'll know way
more than most the people that work at
Bergkshire. So,
uh, you you don't need a personal
interview. If we take it, if we take an
hour
times, even the
40,000 people we may have here,
plus plus Becky's many listeners and
viewers, uh, it just doesn't work. So,
uh, I admire I admire your effort, but
but, uh, but you'll just have
to settle for that is the admiration
that you get in this.
Okay, Becky.
Um, this is a question that you touched
on in a lot of ways in the last answer,
um, from before, but I did get this
question from a few different people.
So, I'd like to ask it. Ricardo Bri, a
longtime shareholder based in Panama,
says that he was very happy to see
Berkshire acquire 100% of BAG. Um, it
was done in two steps. One, in late
2022, 1% was purchased from Greg Ael for
$870 million, implying a valuation of
BHE of $87 billion. And then two, in
2024, the remaining 8% was purchased
from the family of Walter Scott Jr. for
$3.9 billion, implying a valuation of
$48.8 billion for the enterprise. That
second larger transaction represented a
44% reduction in valuation in just 2
years. Ricardo writes that Pacific Corp
liabilities seemed too small to explain
this. Therefore, what factors
contributed to the difference in value
for BHE between those two moments in
time? Well, we don't know how much we'll
lose out of Pacific Court and decisions
that are made, but we also know that
that certain of the
attitudes demonstrated
uh by that particular
example have got
analoges throughout the utility system.
and and
uh
we there's a lot of there's a lot of
states that that so far have been very
good decent to operate in and there are
some now they're rat poison as Charlie
would say to operate in and
uh that knowledge
was was
accentuated when we saw what happened in
the Pacific Northwest and it's extent
accentuated by what we've seen as to how
utilities have been treated in certain
other
situations. Uh and then on top of
that so that it wasn't just a direct
question of what was involved at Pacific
Corp. It was an extrapolation of of a
societal trend. And secondly, we uh uh
also had a decision we didn't expect out
at all in the real estate uh business.
And and and those kind of things can
change values and courts can change
values. And it's a lot easier to make
those decisions when you just own
marketable securities than when you own
businesses.
uh and I've made plenty of those
decisions as I've watched what have
happened in various industries and
companies and over 70 years but
uh Greg made the decision which was fine
with us to get out while and he had no
knowledge of what was going to be
happening in either the real estate
field or the utility field and uh uh we
would we
We're not in the mood to sell any
business, but
but Birkshire Hathaway Energy is worth
considerably less money than it was two
years ago based on societal factors. And
that happens in some of our businesses.
It certainly happened to our textile
business and it's it's
happened. It's the public utility
business is not as good a business as it
was a couple of years ago. And uh if if
anybody doesn't believe that they can
look at Hawaiian and electric and they
look and look at the Edison in the
current
wildfires situation in California and
and uh there's societal trend trends
that are uh oh I just got
a note here on my monitor says the books
are now sold out. So
uh you'll have to spend your money on
other things. Here's fudge. This is what
I'm eating.
something. Uh but that's the explanation
that values change and they don't always
change upward. And uh when we made the
deal with with Greg, we would have would
happy to buy out uh Scott family at that
price. And when we made a deal with the
Scott company, we wouldn't have been
happy to pay Greg the price that he
received. But that that's like
Bergkshire shares. We bought in stock at
X and we buy in stock
at at less than X if if
if conditions change poor and we pay
over the years we pay more and more
because it builds in value but it
doesn't do it in a straight
line. And I would say that our
enthusiasm for buying public utility
companies is different than it now than
it would be would have been a couple
years ago.
That happens in other industries, too,
but it's pretty dramatic in public
utilities. And it's particularly
dramatic in public utilities because
they are going to need lots of money.
So, if you're going to need lots of
money, you probably ought to behave in a
way that encourages people to give you
lots of money. And and uh we will see
where we go.
it. We'd like to see public utilities do
well, but we our responsibilities to the
shareholders of
Burggerway. Okay.
Station, station one
again. Dear Warren, dear Greg, dear
fellow owners, it's such a pleasure to
be here. My name is Revie Panida. I was
born in communist Albania, but I'm now
teaching economics in London, England.
Uh, the wonderful writing of Warren and
Charlie has significantly shaped my
thinking and teaching. I thank you both
very much for the many insights over the
years. Warren has often written about
the importance of Bergkshire's earning
power to owners. My question is, what
was in your estimate Burks's earning
power in the latest fiscal year? It
would be great if you can comment on any
significant items that either increased
or decreased the earning power as
compared to reported net uh income
measures for Bircher. Thank you. Yeah.
Well, I think our underlying earning
power was affected negatively here a
while back by what happened in the
utility field. I think that our
earning power was
not is not enlarged by any large
acquisitions that come along but they
come along periodically. So we will see
something at some point that that uh
well could be you know on the one that
was 10 billion we would have added to
earning power. I mean why else would we
do it? Uh uh
so that's that's very
uh
situational and of course it depends so
much on what the general market is doing
and what interest rates are doing and
what psychology is doing. We will make
our best deals when people are the most
pessimistic. You know that's been
true ever since I was 1930. born in
1930. When I was
born, things got much more attractive
over the next two years and apparently I
didn't do anything about it there. But
uh you know that was the opportunity of
a lifetime and and I blew it
by, you know, worrying about the kid in
the next crib or something. But uh
uh over my
lifetime, you know, I've
had fabulous opportunities sometimes and
and they happen because humans are human
and
uh I don't, you know, I'm fearful of all
kinds of things. I don't want to try
and, you know, be one of the Wendas and
walk on a tiny strip between couple of
twin towers or something or whatever it
may be.
But I don't get I don't I I just I I
don't get fearful by things that that
other people get are afraid of in in in
the financial in a financial way that uh
you know the idea
that if Bergkshire went let's say
Bergkshire went down 50%.
uh next week. I would regard that as a
fantastic opportunity and and it
wouldn't bother me in the least. And and
most people aren't they just react
differently. Uh and
so it doesn't it's not that I don't have
emotions, but I don't have emotions
about the prices of stocks. I mean, I
actually those decisions get all the way
to my brain, whereas emotions can get
bogged down some other place. So
uh uh Bureau will increase its earning
power over time as we retain money. I
mean we we are doing
things making decisions every day.
People are working. We're retaining
earnings. We we will build the earning
power but it won't be coming in in any
even stream. And it certainly won't be
matched dollar for dollar on either the
upside or the downside and market prices
and but that's what makes it a good
business. You know the investment
business is that everything isn't
properly appraised and and the seller
other people get the better your
opportunities get.
Okay, Becky,
this question comes from Achie Patel and
it's about the big cap technology
stocks. In the 2017 annual meeting, you
said Warren, you really don't need any
money to run these companies and
referred to them as ideal businesses,
referring to the big tech companies
Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, and Amazon.
With all of those companies now
announcing massive capital investment
endeavors and a around AI ambitions,
have you rethought the above comment
just in terms of them being asset light
and what you think of them as a result?
Well, it's always better to make a lot
of money with without putting up
anything uh than it is to make a lot of
money by putting up a lot of money. And
so a business that takes no capital to
speak of
um Coca-Cola it
the the finished product which has gone
through bottling companies and
everything that takes a lot of capital
but in terms of the selling the syrup or
the concentrate that goes to it doesn't
take a lot of capital. So, one is a
fabulous business and one is a, you
know, it depends where it is and
everything like that. Coco is popular
every place, but some places it, I mean,
if you're in the bottling business, it
costs real money. You have real trucks
out there and you have all kinds of
machinery and and and you have capital
expenditures coming up. And you know,
we've got businesses that take very
little capital that make high re really
high returns on capital and and the ones
the politicians talk about as making
high returns actually aren't making high
returns usually in terms of capital. Uh
uh insurance, property casual insurance
is kind of a rare business because you
need capital as a guarantee fund that
you will keep your promises but you can
use it to buy other low intensive
capital business. I mean you can you can
buy a whole you can buy Apple and that
would support that business. So, uh,
that can be a pretty good business and
it's one of the reasons we've done well
over time. Uh, but,
uh,
[Music]
the well, it'll be interesting to see
how much capital intensity there.
Certainly, there's more capital
intensity going on with the Magnificent
7 than there were was a few years ago. I
mean basically Apple
uh has not really needed any any capital
over the years and it's repurchased
shares that a dramatic amount of
reduction whether that world is the same
in the future or not is
something Hollywood's answer was always
to get their their money from other
people to put up the
capital it uh a lot of
people have gotten very rich in the
country by essentially figuring out how
out how to get others put up the
capital. Uh and that's what people do in
the in the money management business and
they get very very rich because they
they get an override on other people's
capital. Uh, and incidentally, if if all
of you were paying 1% for investment
management
fees at Berkshire last year, you would
have paid $8 billion
uh for managing and and you really
wouldn't have had to do it. But
uh you know investment management is a
very good game because other people put
up the capital and you you charge them
for the capital whether they do well or
not and then you charge them a lot more
if they do well. I mean it uh it it
uh it's
uh it's a
welldesigned business for the people who
practice it
uh and who can blame them. I mean that's
that is capitalism but
uh and I I saw that in operation when I
was working at Solomon but I didn't need
to see it. I I knew what existed anyway.
The trick in life is to get somebody
else's capital and get an override on
it.
Uh Charlie and I decided it wasn't too
elegant a business after a while. We we
weren't we were not criticizing the
efficacy of it. We were just it just
didn't appeal to us after a
while. I did it for 12 years though or
something like not really. The the one
difference that Charlie and I did from
other people is we put all our own money
in into it. So, so we really we did
share the losses in with our own
capital, but we got an override on other
people's capital and that's been people
have made advances where they get the
override on other people's capital
without putting up any of their own
capital to speak of. And that's that's a
very good business. But
uh
it it it leads it it can lead to a lot
of
abuse. Greg, you've watched capital
management in the United States and
would you say that Canada's behind or
ahead in this respect?
Well, I think when it comes to their
capital system, Warren, it it it is very
comparable. There's no question. Other
than as as we know, I mean, I think the
US as far as having uh a capitalist
system, it would it would be tough to be
touched by uh any country. And I think
when I think of Canada, there's just
certain responsibilities or the or
obligations that the government wants to
take on and aren't going to leave with
the public sector. And that's just a a
decision that's made by society or by
the by the Canadian people or if you
look at another country, Australia,
wherever it may be. But so there's it's
different. But when you think when I
think of capitalism that that drive is
there and and and and the desire to you
know allocate capital properly it's very
similar it it's produced wonders in the
United States if you think about it
but uh originally
uh with the Rockerfellers and Kennedy
and and and Carnegies and all they
actually put up money to build steel
mill you know, whatever it may have been
with with Roger refineries and pipelines
and all that sort of thing, they they
put up money to do it. Now, the trick is
to use other people's money basically.
and and
uh and you know you can't you can't
blame human be beings for behaving like
humans but you should be aware of what
their motivations are. It's a capitalism
in the United States has succeeded like
nothing you've ever seen. But it has the
what it is is it's a combination of this
magnificent cathedral which has produced
an economy like nothing the world's ever
seen and then it's got this massive
casino attached. So you got the
cathedral and the casino and in the
casino everybody's having a good time
and there's lots of money changing hands
and everything but the cathedral is what
got to make sure the cathedral gets gets
fed too because the temptation and the
temptation's very high now is to go over
to the casino where people say you know
we've got magic boxes and all kinds of
things that'll do wonderful things for
you and that's where people are
happiest. That's where you get the most
promise to you. That's where the most
money is for the people that are pushing
things. and
uh you know the balance between the
capital casino and the u and the
cathedral are it's very important that
that uh the United States in the next
hundred years make sure that the
cathedral is not overtaken by the casino
cuz people really like to go to
casinos and it's just so much more fun
and they they bring bells and when you
win and you know they they bring you
drinks and everything else and and uh
uh it's it's designed to move money from
one pocket to another. But um and in the
cathedrals they basically are designing
things that will be be producing goods
and
services
for 300 and some million people like
it's never been done before in in
history.
Uh, it's an interesting system we've
developed, but it's worked. It it it
dispenses
rewards in what seems like a terribly
capriccious manner. I mean, it the idea
that people get what they deserve in
life. And it it's hard to make that
argument. Uh
uh but if you argue with it any other
system where it seems to work better,
the answer is we haven't found one. So
I'll leave it to the next generation to
to send me the answer and then by Ouija
board or whatever
works. Okay. Station two.
Hi, my name is Patrick Nester. I am 13
years old and from Tampa, Florida. I'm
here with my brother John, who's 15, and
my dad. Thank you for hosting this
meeting. This is my first ever
shareholder meeting. My question is,
what high school class or activity
helped influences you to who you are
today as the greatest investor of
investor of all time?
Well, that's good question.
uh the the teachers you get in your life
have this incredible impression and on
you and and a lot of it are the formal
teachers you have but some are informal
teachers too I mean I learned from
certain
employers you know so much
uh you really hope you're learning from
everybody you find who's
well-intentioned and has had a lot of
experience in And I I had a lot of good
luck in that. But I
would I would say that
uh what what well where I was really
lucky was my dad was in the investment
business. So I would go down on Saturday
and I'd wait for him to go to lunch with
and I'd read the books that were around
there that nobody else ever read. And uh
uh and they just they talked to me.
numbers talk to me. Uh and uh
uh I could never get my fill of them.
And then I discovered the public library
and I read every book there was on
investments literally in the Elmo public
library at
19. And uh
uh you know I just I I
enjoyed learning about that unlike
Charlie. If Charlie was
reading about electricity, he would want
to have known everything that Thomas
Edison knew and more and and goes
through the same thought processes and
understand how everything worked. I
didn't care whether how it worked. I
just cared whether it worked. And that's
a limitation. I'm I'm I'm confessing
here. I'm not bragging. Uh uh
but I you know the as as Charlie would
say I mean people would always say if
you could only have lunch with one
person living or dead who would it be
and Charlie said I've already had lunch
with all of them because I've read all
their books you know basically and and
so and he really did it. I think
having
curiosity and and actually finding
sympathetic teachers is very useful. I I
I ran into a couple of teachers that
uh both in high school and college. In
fact, I would say that I went to three
different higher, you know, three
different universities and I went to
high school in Washington and at each
place I found about two or three really
outstanding people and uh and I just
spent my time with them and didn't pay
much attention to the other classes and
uh and I was lucky to find something
that that really fit me very early uh on
if my ambition had been to become a
ventriloquist or you know whatever the
hell it might have been and it wouldn't
have worked you know I' I'd have spent
hours and hours and hours and I wouldn't
have been any good when I got through so
I don't believe
that I think there was that book that
talked about spending 10,000 hours at
something I could spend 10,000 hours at
tap dancing and and and you'd throw up
if you watched me, you know, but but if
I spent if I spent a 10 hours reading
Ben Graham, I would I would be damn
smarter when I got through. So minds are
really really different. I watch great
bridge players and I watch great
physicians, great I mean people really
really really
have different talents and uh you know I
don't know I think you're supposed to
have 88 billion cells in your brain. I'm
not sure that all of mine are flashing
bright lights but
but you are different than anybody else.
That's what my dad always
used to to tell me that uh essentially
that you know you're something
different. It may not be good at the
moment but but uh you you find your own
you find your own
path and you will you will find the
people in schooling that that want to
talk to you. people that
teach in
general, they love having uh a young
student who's actually really interested
in the subject and they'll spend extra
time with you. They'll do all kinds of
things that and I I ran into that. I had
Graham and Dodd at at uh Columbia. Well,
Dave Dodd treated me like a son
basically. And uh uh but I was
interested in
excuse me, I was just in what they were
saying and and they found it kind of
entertaining that I was so interested
and uh so I would just I would I I would
look around at you and you know what
really fascinates you. I wouldn't try
and be somebody
else. And then I would
u you you'll find the teachers uh at a
school and and you'll find some
outstanding people that that are
teachers. I' I've
had at least 10 people that have had
huge impacts on my life and every one of
them was positive, you know,
because I got to select in a sense and
and uh
and a a number of people really like
helping younger people, you know. I
found that in school and probably helps
to look a little bit lost and all that
like you need help. Uh but I I uh I
would say my school
experiences were good but were really
very good
but I attribute it much more to the
individual than to the
institutions.
Okay. I've already told you more than I
know. So we'll go on to
uh Becky. You're next. This question
comes from Scott Williams in Portland,
Oregon. He said, "Do you think the net
benefit of Doge will be positive or
negative for the long-term health of the
United
States?" Well, why don't you give me a
hard one?
I think
that I think that
bureaucracy is something
that is
amazingly prevalent and contagious even
in our capital system. And that big
corporations, you
know,
overwhelmingly most of them look like
they could be run better. I'm sure
Bergkshire does in many way many
respects and
uh it it
uh you know and government is the
ultimate so it it it it really doesn't
have any checks on it.
Uh and that's why it scares you to some
extent about uh about uh what the future
of the currency will be
because they can print currency and and
if
you have people
that get elected by promising people
things and that doesn't mean that that
they aren't sincere about all kinds of
items,
but there's no
politician that says to anybody that at
least if they have money that you know I
really think you have bad breath and if
you don't mind would you step over away
from me it just doesn't happen they uh
and so
I I think the problem of how you control
revenue and
expenses in government is the one that
is never fully solved and has
had
really hurt dramatically certain many
civilizations and I don't think we're
immune from it and we've come close to
it.
Uh but if you tell me how
in in in a
democracy you go in and really change
things, you know, we're we're operating
at a fiscal deficit now that is
unsustainable over a very long period of
time. We don't know whether that means
two years or 20 years that because
there's never been a country like the
United States but
uh you know that if something can't go
on forever it will end to quote Herbert
Stein famous uh economist and uh we are
doing something that is unsustainable
and and it has
the it has the aspect to it that it gets
uncontrollable pull able to a certain
point. I mean, essentially, you just
give up on it and uh Paul Vulker, you
know, kept that from happening in the
United States. Uh but we came close.
We've come close multiple times and
uh you know
the we've still
had very substantial inflation in the
United States, but it's never been run
away yet. And and that's not something
you want to try and experiment with
because it feeds on itself. So
I I wouldn't want the job of of trying
to
correct what's going
on in revenue in the expenditures of the
United States with roughly a 7% gap when
probably a 3% gap is sustainable and
then the further away you get from that
the more you get to where the
uncontrollable begins
and
Uh,
I well I I think that it's it's a job I
don't want, but it's a job I think
should be done, and Congress does not
seem good at doing
it. Well, it sounds like you should quit
while I'm ahead.
It it's
it's and well we've got a lot of
problems always as a country but
but this is one we bring on ourselves. I
mean it it we have a revenue
stream, a capital producing
stream, a brains producing machine like
the world has never seen.
And if you picked a way to screw it up,
it would involve the currency. And and
that's happened a lot of places.
And and
the
incentives plus the
checks. Uh well, there aren't any there
aren't any real checks. You got in
theory, you would make it so there was
substantial downside for the anybody
that screwed things up. But but there
isn't downside, there's upside. And so
it
uh it's the the problem of the most
successful company in the history of the
country in the history of the world. And
uh at this point, we got a little room
to go in in solving. And then with that,
I'll shut up and go on to station three.
Hello Mr. Buffett. My name is Saskia
from Gon Germany and first of all I want
to thank you because you made such a
great impact in my life and the life the
people I love and that's priceless.
Well, thank you
Mr. Buffett. Imagine it's
1776 and you're sitting alongside
Benjamin Franklin helping to shape the
foundation of a new
nation. What core economic principles
would you advocate for building a far
fair, resilient, and opportunitydriven
capitalism society?
one that supports longtime prosperity
for future generations.
Well, I I probably that's a good
question, but I would probably say to
Ben Franklin, you just keep thinking and
don't talk to me because you'll you'll
come up with some better ideas than I
will. He was, you know,
incredibly remarkable person. I mean
that he would say he's
almost probably the last person to
almost have a grasp of every every
aspect of of uh of
activity in the country. He he invented
all kinds of things and he
incidentally we were talking about
uh power of compound interest and that
sort of thing. He he left a will that
that left a sum of money to Philadelphia
and another sum to Boston that would
serve as a example for a couple hundred
years, you know, of the power of
compounding and all all kinds of things.
I he he was so far ahead of his time
that that the best thing I could do if I
was under that tree with him was be to
to get
out get out of his way and let him just
keep thinking. Uh but
uh it
it he saw the
problems that
success could bring to a society as well
as
other problems. I mean more immediate
problems that that uh uh in all kinds of
fields
but the problems of
how how to cause how
to take 8 billion
people because there's no way we can
separate ourselves from the rest of the
world. We can be example to the rest of
the world and I think it it behooves
us since we have had all this good
fortune in this country and we do have a
pretty good system. I don't think it I
don't think you get I don't think you
get very far by lecturing the world on
how you're
the the one that you tell them what they
should do with our lives. I think I I
think you get a certain amount of
resentment when just a few hundred years
ago
uh a whole different group of countries
were running the world and and now you
start giving them advice and that I I
think it's a it's a real mistake in
communication or in
persuasion to uh to lecture a bunch of
people who you've just won the game. I
mean that's uh but anyway
uh I I would say
that I would advise Ben to figure out
how to win the game and keep a certain
amount of humility at the same time. And
uh I would tell him to try and design a
system that doesn't invent too many
things that can destroy the planet. uh
you know that become
uncontrollable once you get them out
there. There was no alternative to us
developing the atom bomb but but
but the expansion of the number of
people that have the ability from one to
eight and and nine probably pretty soon
with Iran. I mean
that that's a mistake that society just
could not afford to make. I mean solving
the problem with nine variables instead
of simply one. Now it's totally
understandable. My dad was in Congress
when when the atom bomb was uh first
used. It's amazing
how how
uh uh Sam Raburn kept the House of
Representatives uninformed because they
they're supposed to appropriate all the
money and had 435 congressmen there and
they had no idea they were appropriating
money for for uh Los Alamos or what was
going on in Chicago or what was going on
in at uh Tennessee. But anyway, uh
uh
we we we do have a society
that is far
beyond anything that Ben Franklin dreamt
of. It's achieved some of the or is
achieve it's moving toward in the right
direction toward solving some problems
where we made kind of broad declarations
about all men being created equal and
and etc. And then we did some of the
things we did but generally speaking we
moved in the right direction.
Uh but we face problems that I don't
know what how how Ben Franklin would
would
uh
uh attack the problem of of what you do
once
you get weapons of mass destruction in
many
hands. And when you
essentially look at the
world as something where there
are winners and
losers and that the winners
are, you know, humiliate the losers and
do all kinds of things. I
it but I'll I'll let the people are a
lot younger to figure out the answers on
that. But it's it's still the most
wonderful. There's never been anything
you could dream like what has happened
in the United States. So we still it's
it's the best place and the best
time to be alive by by miles in the
street. Just think of a couple hundred
years ago
and somebody, you know, yanking out a
few of your teeth and pouring whiskey
down you doing. I mean, the subsistence
and and particularly in this Midwest,
just imagine waiting till the Missouri
froze over every year just to see
whether you can get your wagon across
and maybe have a pregnant woman in the
back. you know when who it is just
amazing what has happened of a positive
nature during my lifetime and then the
question is is how do you how do you
keep it and how do you improve it and uh
uh I I I do think that fundamental to
all of it though is having a uh is
having a currency that that does not get
debased what that does to
the stability of a
society where all the people that trust
their government get screwed and all the
people
that figure out ways to profit off of it
become rich or
richer. I I I I don't think you want a
society that operates in that
manner. So anyway,
Let's see. That
was section three. So, we're going to
Becky. Is that right? Yep. That's right.
Um, Greg, this question is for you. It
comes from a shareholder named Jay
Milroy,
uh, who writes, "Mr. Buffett has a
hands-off approach to managing the
operating subsidiaries. How would you
describe your approach?"
better. Well, we've got our managers
over there and it I I would say going
back to 2018, it's been a it's been very
fortunate to be in this role because
one, I had to learn a lot of the
businesses and there's no question as uh
Warren bought the businesses, had that
general knowledge. I absolutely had to
engage with each of them and they've
been great in uh sharing their their
business models, their approach, their
thoughts around where the risks and
opportunities are and I think as we went
through that there's no question um I
had questions and wanted to engage with
them and Warren talks about the
curiosity being important as you go
through things. that would be my style
to have questions and comments around
their business, their frameworks. Um, at
the same time, they have great
businesses and and they run them very
autonomously and that that remains in
place. But if there's opportunities to
see where uh maybe seen something in
another business or an opportunity I may
see in their industry, we're going to
discuss it and see if that's uh
something we should pursue or are we
properly addressing the risk. And I
found all our managers to be absolutely
engaging on that and and and want to
have those dialogues. And I'd say that's
a reflection of of my approach. I'd also
say that um when you think of our
managers, again, very autonomous. They
they run their businesses. They know it
better than I ever will. But if I see an
opportunity that it's well worth their
time to talk to another one of our
managers, if it's Geico and they've gone
through a technology transformation,
um they're not by themselves that need
to be thinking that way. We want to make
sure the right folks are talking and
figuring out how we can benefit from the
prior experiences. So, it's um I would
say more active
uh but it hopefully in a very positive
way and they and we got an exceptional
group. So, it's worked out exceptionally
well as uh as I've gone through that
period of time. It's working way better
with Greg than with me because
uh you know I I just um I didn't want to
work as hard as he worked and and and I
could get away with it because uh we've
got a basically good business, very good
business. And uh and I wasn't in danger
of you firing me by virtue of both
ownership and the fact that we would do
pretty well. Uh but uh the fact that you
can do pretty well doesn't mean you
couldn't do better. And and and Greg can
do better at many things. Many people
want to be managed, need help in being
managed. Some don't. Some you just leave
alone. Uh you know, we've had managers
it would have been crazy to
uh started giving instructions to cuz
they just quit. And and I wouldn't blame
him cuz I'd be the same type myself. But
uh a lot of people I mean people really
do welcome direction and help and and
and uh you know and particularly when
they're getting it from somebody like
Greg that really lives the life himself
and doesn't just come down on from a
high and say you know here's what you do
while I do something else you know and a
manager that behaves differently than
than what he's asking asking
uh the people beneath them to behave. It
it's it just doesn't work over time. And
uh people want a manager that
they that they admire and they're not
going to admire them if those
people profess to behave in one manner
and behave in another manner. It's
easier. This is a sad thing, but it's
it's easier for an
organization to see its
quality move downward than it is upward.
I mean, it it if if the boss behaves
badly,
uh it causes everybody
to to behave. I mean, it it it that is
really catching. It's not as a c
catching on the
way in upper management.
But if the
manager is doing a lot of little things
to grease his own
situation, pretty soon, let's say you're
running a retail
establishment. Pretty soon all the
employees are a lot of the employees are
telling their friends that they they get
a discount, you know, with the retail
operation and if they want they want if
their friend wants something, they'll
put it on their account and then get the
discount. What once you start deviating
downward, it is really
contagious and it is hard to rebuild.
So, you really need someone that that
uh behaves well on top and is not
playing games for their own benefit. And
and we get a lot of managers that bend
over backwards not to do that sort of
thing. And then we get a few that bend
over
forwards. And uh and if you get enough
companies, you're going to get a lot of
different forms of behavior. and Greg
does something about it and I I've
generally been laxed in doing something
about it, but he's done a way better job
at that than I
have.
Okay, station
four. Hello, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Ael. My
name is Kansas Lomire. I am a junior at
Elkrin South High School and was born
and raised in Omaha. My question is
directed to Greg Ael. Birkshshire
Hathaway is the second largest utility
provider in the United States and a 2025
Reuters investigation found that is the
coal fleet is the dirtiest in the
nation. There is currently no concrete
plans to retire coal and fully
transition to renewable energy. I'm 17
years old. Considering that, what do you
have to say to young people like me who
will live with the consequences of
climate change con by companies like
Birkshshire?
[Music]
[Applause]
Thank you for your your your both your
question and your comments because it is
it is important to to understand uh say
Berkshire Hathway Energy but also um how
they operate and and maybe using Iowa at
least as a starting example because I
think that was one of the uh states
cited in the report.
One of the important things that I'd say
early in us acquiring our energy
companies and I go back to when we
acquired Mid American. We acquired it in
uh
1999. Berkshire purchased uh Mid-Americ
in 2000. Well, one thing that became
very clear to uh myself and our teams
was that what we do within our utilities
is really driven in two fronts. one, we
absolutely have to meet the requirements
and the law that's laid out federally,
but most importantly, we had to
recognize we implement public policy
across these states. And that was an
interesting conversation when I go back
to to Iowa. And again, the report cited
that as a a significant problem. Um it
was early in the 2000s when for the
first time in Iowa we were going to as a
utility be short of power. So, we didn't
have the energy and we entered into a a
significant discussion with our governor
at the time and and really sat down and
said, "Where do you want us to go as uh
as
Mid-American and what resources do you
want as as a state?" And at that time,
we were predominantly a coal based
state. Um and and we recognized that uh
obviously and and fundamentally
personally viewed it as a risk but we we
needed to have that conversation with
our state and as to how we would manage
that going forward. The interesting
thing was that um as we had that
conversation in uh the early 2000s again
with the leadership of our state it was
clearly decided we wanted to continue to
be long power so i.e not be short for
our customers. We discussed the type of
resource and I I remember uh a very
clear conversation around we wanted to
stay balanced across a variety of energy
sources and and at that time it was
really coal and natural gas and at that
time we made the decision to build the
largest uh wind project in the in the US
in Iowa. So we undertook an effort to
build three resources, a a coal plant, a
gas plant, and a uh what was the first
uh wind project we owned in
Mid-Americ and again it was very
consistent with what the state wanted.
But we also laid some important
groundwork there because we started to
define the importance of uh renewable
energy, non-carbon resources, but it has
to be consistent with what the state
wanted. And we've gone on over the since
that period of time
um to deploy $16
billion into Iowa associated with
renewable energy. Again, very consistent
with what our state wanted us to do,
i.e. the underlying policy. We don't get
to make that decision and just spend 16
billion. Uh it's done in conjunction
with our governors, our legislators, our
regulators. And at the same time,
um we've had the opportunity to retire
five of the 10 coal units. Now, as the
report highlighted, I I understand
people would like those other five coal
units retired at this time, but to think
we deployed 16 billion to retire five
and and it's a very good outcome for our
customers. We've been able to maintain
our rates. They're the some of the
lowest in the country. So, it's been
done very efficiently. But the reality
is we still need those five coal units
to keep the system stable. Uh we cannot
have a Spain Portugal
situation. So we absolutely respect the
input. We absolutely respect the process
and will continue to work with each of
our states to identify the path they
would like to chart and we work hard to
ensure there's good balanced outcomes
because we recognize uh um the
challenges they're associated with um
others other folks desires. So, I think
you'll continue to see our utilities
implement policy consistent with uh with
the needs of of their stakeholders,
their customers, and at the same time
always respecting what uh what's
required by any any of the federal
standards. So, thank you for your for
your comments.
Okay, 31. Let's see. Becky, uh, this
question comes from Billy D. Ross. He
writes, "Mr. Buffett, as a nurse from
New York State, I've spent years
struggling to secure good health
insurance for myself, even while working
on the front lines to save lives. In New
York, accessing insurance means
navigating a confusing state-run system
that feels like it's designed to
overwhelm. I'm curious what ultimately
led to the end of your healthc care
venture with JP Morgan and Amazon and
given your commitment to value and
long-term thinking would you ever
consider taking another look at health
insurance reform in the US? Yeah,
we're we're spending
close it's hard to get the precise
figure but close to 20% of
GDP on health.
And if you go back to 1960, there were a
number of countries that were each
spending around
5%. And uh then they the lines began to
diverge
dramatically, but the mathematical
uh fact that there are only 100
percentage
points in in the equation didn't change.
So
uh we tried that
uh experiment with JP Morgan and
Amazon and uh we had three people
that didn't think they knew the answer
and uh but thought
that in my case I use the term that that
it was a tapeworm in the
economy and
We also found out that uh that the
tapeworm was alive in every in every
part of the country. I mean the the
hospitals liked it. The hospitals had
prominent
people working with
people people generally liked their
doctor didn't like the but didn't like
the system. I mean all kinds of things
but in the end
uh JP Morgan and Amazon and Bergkshire
were not going to have any effect on
changing that 20%. Now that
20% there are only 100 percentage points
uh available and one other countries
spend six or 7% and perhaps use our
system to their advantage which is well
also very true.
Uh you know that is an enormous
percentage of of an economy and
uh we
simply it was too entrenched
uh to really do much in the way of
change. And
uh we spent some money on it and we did
some work and we learned a good bit
about our own
systems and we saw
the degree to
which
the present system was
ingrained in so many
people's you know whether the health
care providers whether everybody and
these aren't evil people I mean they're
just they're just going about something
and trying to trying to save lives. But
but uh we found that whether it was in
Canada or France or Britain or wherever
it might be that if you looked at our
costs that they were just far higher and
to some extent we were subsidizing
the rest of the world and people would
come to the United States to do the
really unusual or challenging
uh aspects health in terms of operations
and that sort of thing. uh but we we
made no progress and uh
uh there comes a point
where the government's you know and I
mean it's so involved in the situation
and health is so important to most to
everybody and uh
uh we couldn't we we uh we as
I said to uh Jamie and Jeff I said well
the tapeworm won and uh uh there are
problems of society when you get
20% of your
GDP going into a given
industry
the the degree of
enthusiasm for changing that industry
the political power that the industry
will have and that doesn't mean they're
evil it's and And you know everybody
they just end up there and uh uh so I
don't know the
uh I we we came to the conclusion we
didn't know the answer three of us and
uh uh we had the money to do
it and we didn't
know how to
change how 330 million people felt about
their doctor felt about our healthc care
what they felt entitled to and you know
and it's
uh it it it won't change by
itself and
uh government is the only one that can
change it and the only people in
government that can change it are
getting majority of 435 people and 100
people and and my dad lost one election
in his life in 1948. 8 and he he he was
a very strong
Republican and in 1950 he went back and
beat the guy that beat him in 1948 and
he got the doctors behind him and and uh
uh he did very you know they're very
well and they believe 100% in what
they're doing. They're helping people
every day. And during the pandemic, the
sacrifices made by
people save other people just
incredible. Can you imagine working in
in something where they're bringing in
people that are, you know, going to die
by the dozens and dozens and dozens and
you try to somehow keep your own morale
up and keep working with them. So, you
can't argue about the importance of it.
But our costs are so different than any
c country in the world that it's a it is
just it's a huge element and we're a
very rich country. So we can do other we
can do things other countries can't do.
and through our elected representatives
and a whole variety of things over time,
we've developed a system that is
enormously
resistant
to any kind of major major change and
it's important in every community that
it's in. So, I wish we had an answer for
you, but but uh uh I was somewhat
pessimistic going in. I was a little
more pessimistic when we came out, but
I'm I'm glad I'm glad we did what we did
and and we learned something about our
own failings
uh in the process. So, Berkshire in
effect got us money's worth, but we
didn't kill the
tapeworm. Okay.
trying to change things in government is
it's an interesting proposition in the
country because uh uh you get self-
selection in terms of the people that go
into government and continue in it and
to some
extent they keep they have to make
decisions that they don't like as they
go along and they learn to accept them
or or rationalize them or whatever.
whatever it may be, but it's still the
best, you know, this country's worked
out better than any country in the
world. So, it
uh you you can't argue it was a failure,
but you can argue that there is that
there are certain problems that are
terribly tough to figure out ways to
solve. And of course, one of them gets
back to the fiscal problem I mentioned
before because it's it's easy to spend
money and it's hard to cut people's
receipts. And uh and if you get
elected, you know, you are going to
you're going to say to yourself, well, I
can do more good if I stay and then if I
really vote my conscience on this sort
of thing. So you give away a little bit
here and a little bit there and a little
bit there and finally you don't
recognize yourself in the mirror anymore
and and uh that's I grew up in a
political family but but uh and I
watched I watched how people behaved and
and and they behave like human beings
which is what you have to expect and I
behave like human beings. Um
uh we still manage to keep moving
forward in dramatic way. It's so much
better to live here than it was 100
years ago or 200 years ago. It's
dramatic. So you can't say the system's
a failure, but you can say that it is
very difficult to
make major changes in
it.
Okay.
Station five.
Hi Warren Gu. My name is Pig Huang Chen.
I'm from Taiwan. This is my seventh time
here. First of all, I want to thank you
Warren for your generosity of sharing
your wisdom and lesson. You changed my
life and you are my role model and my
hero. And my question is Warren, you
mentioned that Mr. Apple will be in
charge of capital allocation near the
future. And I'd like to know your
perspective on is it easier for business
operator to be an investor or for
investor to be a business operator?
Thank you. No, that's a good question. I
see we call him Mr. Apple even.
Thank you. And I'll take it and uh
uh it's a lot tougher to be an operator.
I mean, it it is it's easier to sit in a
room like I do and play around with
money.
Uh it's just an easier life. Uh that
doesn't mean it's a more admirable life.
It
doesn't but it's been actually been a
pleasant life for me. So I I don't
complain to the least. and and I and
I've I've been able to choose my friends
which has made an enormous
uh difference in my life. I've never had
to work for anybody that I really didn't
admire. I mean that's a luxury in life.
had five different people I worked for
and
uh you know I just they were fantastic
whether it was with the manager of the
local pennies which is located well it
used to be located a couple miles from
here and
uh newspaper managers everything they
have never been really disappointed by
any teacher I've had so
uh but I would I have to admit that that
uh I have been able
to choose what I do with my
day to an extraordinary degree compared
to to be a business operator and and in
many cases
uh I wouldn't like to
compete to be a top-notch business
operator in terms of some of
some of the some of the behavior that
would might be forced upon me. I I am
the master. I mean, I'm I' I've found
myself in this position where I can I
can run the kind of company I want to
run. And and that that that's an
extraordinary luxury. And with it with
that, I should say that I'm getting
a a section that says five minute
warning, exclamation point, five minute
warning, exclamation point. So I would
now like to turn to a subject that I
want to discuss with you a few minutes
and then when I'm through discussing
this I'll let Becky ask me a question or
two which may want you may want some
elaborate questions that come to you as
I I make these comments. Uh tomorrow
we're
having a board meeting of
Bergkshire and uh we have
directors. Two of the directors who are
my children
uh Howie and Susie know of what I'm
going to talk about there. The rest of
them this will come as news to. Uh, but
I think it it's
uh the time has arrived
where Greg should become the chief
executive
officer of the company at your end. And
I want
to spring that on the directors
effectively and give that as my
recommendation. let them have the time
to think about what questions or what
structures or anything that they want
and then the meeting following that
uh which will come in a few months uh
we'll take action
on whatever the view is of the 11
directors
uh I I think they'll be
unanimously in favor of it And
uh that would mean that at year end Greg
would be the chief executive or officer
of Bergkshire. And uh um I would still
hang around and could conceivably be
useful in a few cases. That's good. But
the final
word would be
what Greg said in
operations, in capital deployment,
whatever it might be. I could be
helpful, I believe, in that in certain
respects if we ran into periods of great
opportunity or anything.
Uh I I I think
that Ber has a special reputation that
when there's times of trouble for the
government that we are an asset and not
a liability which is a position that
very hard to have because usually the
the
um the public and and and and government
get very negative on on business if
there's a time like that. But so I think
I could there might be a time when I I'd
be hopeful. But Greg would have the
tickets and uh uh and he would make like
I said whether
it's
acquisitions. Uh I think the board would
be more
welcome to giving him more authority on
large acquisitions probably if they knew
I was around. Uh but Kate would be the
chief executive period and uh like I say
the plan is to
u and Greg doesn't know anything about
this
until what he's hearing right now but
that
uh yeah the uh
uh the the board
will be able ask me questions
tomorrow as to a little more of the
specifics of of what they should be
thinking and all that. they they'll
they'll they'll they'll digest it
and then at the next board meeting after
that
uh if we as I would guess we would if
they act then obviously we we have
something to announce to the world as a
material change and perure and we'll go
forward with that operation and and
uh
Uh I will play with a Ouija board or
whatever and that comes out in terms of
doing things but
but I will
not I have no intention
zero of selling one share of Ber halfway
get given away gradually
It it just won't
[Music]
Hey, thank you.
Hello. I
Okay, drink your coke and calm down.
I would I would say I would add
this the uh the decision to keep every
share is an economic decision because I
think the prospects of Bure will be
better under Greg's management than than
mine and and uh
uh but you know I will I will come in
and and uh and there may come a time
when we get a chance to invest a lot of
money and and uh and if that time
comes, I think it may be helpful with
the board the fact that they know I've
got all my money in the in the company
and that that I think it's smart and
I've seen what Greg has done. So, uh
that's the news hook for the day,
fell and thanks for coming.
Yeah. Heat.
Yeah, the in the
the enthusiasm shown by that response
could be interpreted in two ways, but
I'll take a surprise.
Thank you, sir. Yep.
Okay. Heat.